"A tutorial paper on an adaptive receiver that is suitable for high-speed digital signaling over slowly time-varying, band-limited channels which have impulse responses that are unknown at the receiver is presented. The receiver utilizes a steepest-descent technique for adjusting its parameters to existing channel conditions. A treatment of the speed of adaptation of the receiver is included."
"The question of Campbell concerning the possibility of applying Shannon's sampling theorem to the same functions that can be sampled by Kramer's generalized sampling theorem is investigated and illustrated for more functions which are solutions of second-order differential equations with singular coefficients. A few definitions are introduced and some theorems are proved to show, in a more precise way, that under certain conditions the two sampling theorems are equivalent."
"A general and fundamental relationship between estimation, detection/pattern recognition, and the Bhattacharyya coefficient is established. Specifically, it is shown that a functional of the likelihood ratio necessary for Bayes optimal detection/pattern recognition is the Bayes-optimal mean-square estimate of the indicator variable\\beta, where\\beta = 1, 0, for hypothesesH_{1}, H_{0}, respectively. The Bhattacharyya coefficient is then shown to be the expected value of the estimation error standard deviation."
"This paper is concerned with the output autocorrelation functionR^{y}of Gaussian noise passed through a nonlinear device. An attempt is made to investigate in a systematic way the changes inR^{y}when certain mathematical manipulations are performed on some given device whose correlation function is known. These manipulations are the \"elementary combinations and transformations\" used in the theory of Fourier integrals, such as addition, differentiation, integration, shifting, etc. To each of these, the corresponding law governingR^{y}is established. The same laws are shown to hold for the envelope of signal plus noise for narrow-band noise with spectrum symmetric about signal frequency. Throughout the text and in the Appendix it is shown how the results can be used to establish unknown correlation function quickly with main emphasis on power-law devicesy = x^{m}withmeither an integer or half integer. Some interesting recurrence formulas are given. A second-order differential equation is derived which serves as an alternative means for calculatingR^{y}."
"In classical estimation theory, the observation is always assumed to contain the signal to be estimated. In practice, certain observations, or sequences of observations, may contain noise alone, only the probability of occurrence of such cases being available to the estimator. An example is trajectory tracking where the signal is first detected and then the estimator is allowed to process it for tracking purposes. However, any detection decision is associated with a false-alarm probability, which is the probability that the detected signal contains only noise. Minimum mean-square estimators are derived for two different forms of this problem; 1) when it is possible that the observation at any sample time contains signal or is noise alone, independent of the situation at any other sample, and 2) when the entire sequence of observations contains signal or is only noise. The estimators derived are of recursive form. A simple example is given for illustration."
"Aspects of optimum filtering for complex valued random processes are presented. Ordinary linear filters are complemented with conjugate linear filters. It is found that the incorporation of conjugate linear filtering improves signal-to-noise ratio by a factor of two in matched filter receivers. For optimum least squares filtering the inclusion of conjugate processing reduces mean-square error by a factor as great as two; the improvement depends primarily on the degree of correlation between the real and imaginary parts of the signal process. The analysis utilizes special correlation properties of receiver noise. Also, in the absence of phase lock, conjugate linear processing offers no improvement. Finally, it is observed that in the Gaussian case the least squares nonlinear receiver for modulations consists of the derived linear-conjugate linear receiver followed by demodulators comparable to those used in practice."
"A model that allows one to calculate information rates for optical communication systems that use photocount detection is presented. This model has its basis in the coherent states of the field. It consists of a source that places the field in a coherent state, a channel that can introduce additive Gaussian noise, and a photodetector that produces the number of photocounts in the detection interval as output symbols. The capability of introducing additive Gaussian noise can also be used to represent a physical source. The model is applied to several examples to illustrate its use. The rate of flow of information through the channel is calculated for a binary channel with and without additive Gaussian noise. The information rate for a noiseless channel is also obtained for the case in which the signals sent by a single-mode coherent source are selected from a Gaussian distribution."
"This paper concerns the problems of the measurability and measurement of random time-variant linear channels. With regard to measurability, a new, less stringent channel measurability criterion is proposed to supersede the BL product introduced by Kailath. This criterion involves the area of occupancy of the Doppler-delay spread function (or its dual). By using time and bandwidth constraints on the input and output of a channel, channel measurement is reduced to the measurement of a discrete set of finite parameters. Optimal measurement techniques are described and their performances determined for both known and unknown channel correlation functions."
"We consider a feedback communication system in which the forward and feedback channels are disturbed by additive noise and constrained in average power. Two block coding schemes are proposed in which the signals are orthogonal waveforms. A finite number of forward and feedback transmissions per message is made. Information received over the feedback channel is used to reduce the expected value of forward signal energy on all iterations after the first. Similarly, the expected value of feedback signal energy is reduced on all iterations after the first. These schemes, which are modifications of a feedback coding scheme due to Kramer, obtain improved error performance over one-way coding at all rates up to the forward channel capacity, provided only that the feedback channel capacity is greater than the forward channel capacity. They require less feedback power than existing feedback coding schemes to achieve a given error performance."
"We consider binary communication over the additive white Gaussian noise channel with no bandwidth constraint on the channel input signals, assuming the availability of a noiseless delayless feedback link. Although the signals at timetcan depend on the noise at times\\tau < tand are therefore random functions, we require that the signal energy never exceed a fixed level. We show that the optimal probability of error is attainable without the use of the feedback channel by using antipodal signals."
"Forf(t)a real-valued signal band-limited to- \\pi r \\leq \\omega \\leq \\pi r (0 < r < 1)and represented by its Fourier integral, upper bounds are established for the magnitude of the truncation error whenf(t)is approximated at a generic timetby an appropriate selection ofN_{1} + N_{2} + 1terms from its Shannon sampling series expansion, the latter expansion being associated with the full band[-\\pi, \\pi]and thus involving samples offtaken at the integer points. Results are presented for two cases: 1) the Fourier transformF(\\omega)is such that|F(\\omega)|^{2}is integrable on[-\\pi, \\pi r](finite energy case), and 2)|F(\\omega)|is integrable on[-\\pi r, \\pi r]. In case 1) it is shown that the truncation error magnitude is bounded above byg(r, t) \\cdot \\sqrt{E} \\cdot \\left( \\frac{1}{N_{1}} + \\frac{1}{N_{2}} \\right)whereEdenotes the signal energy andgis independent ofN_{1}, N_{2}and the particular band-limited signal being approximated. Correspondingly, in case 2) the error is bounded above byh(r, t) \\cdot M \\cdot \\left( \\frac{1}{N_{1}} + \\frac{1}{N_{2}} \\right)whereMis the maximum signal amplitude andhis independent ofN_{1}, N_{2}and the signal. These estimates possess the same asymptotic behavior as those exhibited earlier by Yao and Thomas [2], but are derived here using only real variable methods in conjunction with the signal representation. In case 1), the estimate obtained represents a sharpening of the Yao-Thomas bound for values ofrdose to unity."
"The method of minimum discrimination information estimation is applied to the problem of estimating ann-dimensional discrete probability distribution in terms of lower order marginal distributions. The procedure provides a convergent iterative algorithm. The method yields regular best asymptotically normal (RBAN) estimates. The general procedure includes as a particular case that proposed by a method using dependence trees. An example is given."
"A simple algorithm is presented for finding rate 1/n random-error-correcting convolutional codes. Good codes considerably longer than any now known are obtained. A discussion of a new distance measure for convolutional codes, called the free distance, is included. Free distance is particularly useful when considering decoding schemes, such as sequential decoding, which are not restricted to a fixed constraint length. It is shown how the above algorithm can be modified slightly to produce codes with known free distance. A comparison of probability of error with sequential decoding is made among the best known constructive codes of constraint length 36."
"Some numeric results are presented from a distribution-free analysis of how many design patterns to sample from each of two classes, for stationary, discrete-measurement pattern classifiers. A table of design sample size partitions is presented, that maximizes the mean accuracy, given the total number of design patterns and the prior class probabilities. The maximization is also over the measurement complexity (total number of resolvable measurement values). It is shown that the optimal sample size partitions are biased, in that fewer patterns should be taken of the more probable class than is implied by the prior class probabilities. An insensitivity to nonoptimal partitions is exhibited, which appears to be similar to that seen in other Bayesian decision problems."
"The error limiting codes of Neumann [7], are generalized to include error-correcting capabilities. Examples are given."
"The probability ofKor more zeros following a one and the covariance function of the output noise bits from the generalized Gilbert channel are determined. These probabilities are used in developing a method for calculating the probability distribution of burst lengths in a sequence ofnoutput bits from the channel. Several applications of the distribution are described."
"A decoding scheme is given for some block codes for which it is known how to decode a subcode. It is shown that the proposed decoding scheme can be applied to several BCH codes making it possible to correct many errors beyond the ones guaranteed by the known minimum distance and also the codes will be \"effectively\" majority decodable."
"A cellular array is a logical network of identical or almost identical cells, each of which contains a small amount of logic and storage, and, except for a few buses to the edge of the array, is connected only to its immediate neighbors. The cellular approach offers special advantages for realization by the forthcoming large-scale-integrated (LSI) technology. Such arrays are shown to be applicable for the encoding and decoding of binary error-correcting codes, and also for identifying the possibilities of tradeoffs between decoding time and equipment complexity. Arrays are presented for the decoding of single errors, burst errors, and erasures; the decoding of erasures is accomplished by the equation-solution approach, and it is shown for several code families that the Gauss elimination procedure is not required."
"The theorem of Kac, Murdock, and Szegö is useful in evaluating the capacity of a time-continuous channel or the rate distortion function of a random process. Here we prove anN-dimensional version of the theorem which is useful for evaluating the rate distortion function of a random field."
"In a previous correspondence we derived parametric expressions for the rate distortion function of a Gaussian process under a weighted-square error criterion. Our prior formulation had two deficiencies: one, of a physical orientation, was that transient effects were ignored; the second relates to analytical tractability in applying the results. In this correspondence we correct these shortcomings."
"New properties are derived for the moments of real and of complex Ganssian processes. The present analysis shows that all the properties of the multidimensional generalized Hermite polynomials can readily be transcribed into properties of Gaussian processes. Our results are general and hold for processes that are not necessarily of zero mean or stationary; the covariance matrix may be symmetric or nonsymmetric."
"Bias criteria for evaluating spectral window functions and upper bounds of bias are derived using power spectrum models, and known window functions are evaluated according to the criteria. The function commonly called the \"Hanning\" window is shown to have the best bias characteristics."
"Two groups ofL-dimensional observations of sizeN_{1}andN_{2}are known to be random vector variables from two unknown probability distribution functions [1]. A method is discussed for obtaining anl-dimensional linear subspace of the observation space in which thel-variate marginal distributions are most separated, based on a nonparametric estimate of probability density functions and a distance criterion. The distance used essentially is theL_{2}norm of the difference between Parzen estimates of the two densities. An algorithm is developed that determines the subspace for which the distance between the two densities is maximized. Computer simulations are performed."
"In this paper we show that for memoryless time-discrete sources with a bounded fidelity criterion, the limiting average distortion achievable by tree codes of rateRisD, the solution of the equationR = R(D), whereR( )denotes the usual rate distortion function. Thus the performance of tree codes is as good as that of block codes. Some theoretical and experimental results are also discussed indicating that tree codes and corresponding encoding algorithms exist having for given values ofRandDan implementation complexity that is far smaller than the one obtainable from block codes."
"It is proved that every linear code of dimensionkcan be decoded by a threshold decoding circuit that is guaranteed to correcteerrors ife \\leq (d - 1)/2wheredis the minimum distance of the code. Moreover it is demonstrated that the number of levels of threshold logic is less than or equal tokby giving an algorithm for generating the decoding logic employingklevels."
"Recurrent codes for burst-error correction are defined to be a type B1 code. A type B1 code is capable of correcting all the single burst errors of lengthlor less. A type B2 code is a subclass of a type B1 code with the restriction that the single burst error of lengthlor less occurs withinrconsecutive blocks (it is assumed thatlis divisible bybandl = rb). In this paper, the author will present a class ofq-nary recurrent codes--both type B1 and B2 codes--for burst-error correction. The construction procedures for this class of codes are simple and systematic. An interesting relation exists between a type B1 and a type B2 code. If a code is type B2 (with block lengthb, burst-error-correction capabilityl = rb), then by reducing the block length by one symbol, the type B2 code becomes a type B1 code, while the burst-error-correction capability remains the same. Both types of codes can be used for the correction of binary burst errors. The correction of binary burst errors will be briefly discussed in this paper."
"Closed-form expressions are derived for the partial derivatives with respect to the time delays of the fourth product momentW(t_{1}, t_{2}, t_{3}) = E[ Y_{1}(t) Y_{2}(t + t_{1}) Y_{3}(t + t_{2}) Y_{4}(t + t_{3})]when theY_{i}(t)are infinitely clipped, zero-mean, jointly Gaussian processes. Since the output autocorrelation of systems with infinitely clipped inputs is often a sum of such fourth product moments, these partial derivatives can be used to determine second-order output properties, such as the power spectrum, when the system's inputs are correlated. In particular when the output is low-pass filtered, one numerical integration determines the variance of the smoothed process. The results are applied to study the behavior of the output variance, as a function of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and input bandwidth, of two systems which signal process using polarity coincidence techniques. When the normalized spectra of the independent signal and noise inputs are identical, it is shown that the output variance decreases as SNR increases, but, for SNR less than0dB and for all bandwidths considered, the output variance deviates at most-1dB relative to its value for uncorrelated, noise only, inputs."
"An analysis of the threshold characteristic of FM signals when modulated by a Gaussian baseband signal and demodulated by an ideal FM discriminator has been derived. It is shown that there are two components in the demodulated output due entirely to modulation. This analysis serves also to unify the work of Rice [8], Wang [9], and Blachman [16]."
"The determination of the state-space equations of a time-varying finite-dimensional linear system with a prescribed output covariance matrix is considered when the system is excited by Gaussian white-noise inputs. It is shown that a symmetric state covariance matrix provides the key link between the state-space equations of a system and the system output covariance matrix. Furthermore, such a matrix satisfies a linear matrix differential equation if the state-space equations of the system are known, and a matrix Riccati equation if the output covariance matrix of the system is given. Existence results are given for the Riccati equation solution, and discussion of asymptotic solutions of the differential equations is also included."
"A method of solving Fredholm integral equations by state-variable techniques is presented. A principal feature of this method is that it leads to efficient computer algorithms for calculating numerical solutions. The assumptions made are 1) the kernel of the integral equation is the covariance function of a random process, 2) this random process is the output of a linear system having a white-noise input, 3) this linear system has a finite-dimensional state-variable description. Both the homogeneous and inhomogeneous equations are reduced to two linear first-order differential equations and an associated set of boundary conditions. The coefficients of these differential equations and the boundary conditions are specified directly by the matrices describing the random process that generates the kernel. The eigenvalues of the homogeneous integral equation are found to be solutions of a transcendental equation involving the transition matrix of the vector differential equations. The eigenfunctions follow directly. By using this same transcendental equation, an effective method of calculating the Fredholm determinant is derived. For the inhomogeneous equation, the vector differential equations are identical to those obtained in the state-variable formulation of the optimal linear smoother. Several examples illustrating the methods developed are presented."
"This paper considers the estimation of the location of a signal source; independent estimates of the signal arrival time at d different spatial locations are used to form the source location estimate. Since the maximum-likelihood estimate of the source location requires a search through at least a 3-dimensional space, easily computed estimates are considered. Their covariances are compared with the appropriate Cramér-Rao bounds."
"Methods are given for the numerical computation of Shannon's rate-distortion functionR(D)for certain memoryless message sources. It is first assumed thatU, the set of possible message-source outputs, andV, the set of possible destination symbols, are countable. The computation ofR(D)for this case is reduced to a minimization problem in which the variables are the destination-symbol probabilities. For arbitraryUandV, upper and lower bounds onR(D)are derived by partitioningUandVeach into a countable collection of disjoint subsets and employing the results derived previously for the case of countableUandV. Conditions are then discussed under which these bounds can be made arbitrarily close to each other by choosing sufficiently fine partitions ofUandV. Two examples are included to illustrate the results in detail."
"Letx(t)be the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process andy(t)the result of low-passRCfiltering of sgnx(t). This paper considers the problem of determining the first-order probability density function ofy(t). The approach is to apply the\\nuth-order Fokker-Planck-Kolmogorov type equations. Based upon an assumption as to the linearity of a coefficient of the resulting differential equation, a closed-form solution is obtained forp(y). The result agrees with the previous work of Doyle, McFadden and Marx who solved the special case when the bandwidth of theRCfilter is twice the bandwidth of the input noise. The result also agrees, to within experimental error, with a Monte Carlo simulation over four orders of magnitude of variation of the ratio of the bandwidths of theRCfilter and the input process."
"In view of the trend toward the representation of signals as physical observables characterized by vectors in an abstract signal space, rather than as time or frequency functions, it is desirable that dimensionality be defined in a manner independent of the choice of basis on which the vectors are projected. The intrinsic dimensionality of a collection of signals is defined to be equal to the number of free parameters required in a hypothetical signal generator capable of producing a close approximation to each signal in the collection. Thus defined, the dimensionality becomes a relationship between the vectors representing the signals. This relationship need not be a linear one and does not depend on the basis onto which the vectors are projected in the signal-measuring process. A digital computer program for estimating this dimensionality from the signal coefficients on an arbitrary basis has been developed. The program makes use of some results obtained from a multi-dimensional scaling problem in experimental psychology and utilizes an inverse relationship between the variance in interpoint distances within a hypersphere and the dimensionality of the hypersphere. Using this method, the results are believed to be independent of the choice of orthogonal basis, and no prior knowledge of the analytical form of the signals is assumed. The validity of the program is tested and verified by using it to estimate the dimensionality of signals of known structure."
"We shall show that the solution of Fredholm equations with symmetric kernels of a certain type can be reduced to the solution of a related Wiener-Hopf integral equation. A least-squares filtering problem is associated with this equation. When the kernel has a separable form, this related problem suggests that the solution can be obtained via a matrix Riccati differential equation, which may be a more convenient form for digital computer evaluation. The Fredholm determinant is also expressed in terms of the solution to the Riccati equation; this formula can also be used for the numerical determination of eigenvalues. The relations to similar work by Anderson and Moore and by Schumitzky are also discussed."
"This correspondence describes the digital-detection (binary integration, double threshold detection) properties for a fluctuating radar echo, assuming the Rice distribution for signal plus noise. Calculation results make clear the transition of detection properties from the nonfluctuating case to the extreme fluctuating case."
"By employing invariance theory and the Hunt-Stein theorem in particular, CFAR and minimax detectors are derived for a signal of unknown phase in the presence of additive Gaussian noise of unknown covariance."
"A mathematical model is formulated for an optical PCM system. Using the signal-to-noise ratio at the decision circuit as the performance criterion, the optimization of a nonlinear detector is carried out. Closed-form expressions for the jointly optimum electrical filtering and biasing, and for the maximum signal-to-noise ratio are obtained."
"The problem considered is that of finding the best linear transformation to reduce a random-data vectorzto a vector of smaller dimension. It is assumed that the original data are Gaussian under either of two hypotheses, and that one wishes to use the transformed data to distinguish the hypotheses. The Bhattacharya distance is used to measure the information carried by the transformed data. A compromise solution is obtained for the case in which the data have both different means and different covariances under the alternative hypotheses."
"A class of upper bounds on the probability of error for the general multihypotheses pattern recognition problem is obtained. In particular, an upper bound in the class is shown to be a linear functional of the pairwise Bhattacharya coefficients. Evaluation of the bounds requires knowledge of a priori probabilities and of the hypothesis-conditional probability density functions. A further bound is obtained that is independent of a priori probabilities. For the case of unknown a priori probabilities and conditional probability densities, an estimate of the latter upper bound is derived using a sequence of classified samples and Kernel functions to estimate the unknown densities."
"Some known results on the nonexistence of linear optimal codes can be very easily proved using results on the weight distribution of such codes."
"Syntactic information about a corpus of linguistic or pictorial data can be discovered by analyzing the statistics of the data. Given a corpus of text, one can measure the tendencies of pairs of words to occur in common contexts, and use these measurements to define clusters of words. Applied to basic English text, this procedure yields clusters which correspond very closely to the traditional parts of speech (nouns, verbs, articles, etc.). For FORTRAN text, the clusters obtained correspond to integers, operations, etc.; for English text regarded as a sequence of letters (or of phonemes) rather than words, the vowels and the consonants are obtained as clusters. Finally, applied to the gray shades in a digitized picture, the procedure yields slice levels which appear to be useful for figure extraction."
"Intersymbol interference and additive Gaussian noise are two important sources of distortion in digital systems, and a principal goal in the analysis of such systems is the determination of the resulting probability of error. Earlier related work has sought to estimate the error probability either by calculating an approximation based upon a truncated version of the random pulse train or by obtaining an upper bound which results from consideration of the worst case intersymbol interference. In this paper a new upper bound is derived for the probability of error which is computationally simpler than the truncated pulse-train approximation and which never exceeds the worst case bound. Moreover, the new bound is applicable in a number of cases where the worst case bound cannot be used. The bound is readily evaluated and depends upon three parameters: the usual signal-to-noise ratio; the ratio of intersymbol interference power to total distortion power; and the ratio of the maximum intersymbol interference amplitude to its rms value. To illustrate the utility of the bound, it is compared with the earlier methods in three cases which are representative of the most important situations occurring in practice."
"Several classes of decoding rules are considered here including block decoding rules, tree decoding rules, and bounded-distance and minimum-distance decoding rules for binary parity-check codes. Under the assumption that these rules are implemented with combinational circuits and sequential machines constructed with AND gates, OR gates, INVERTERS, and binary memory cells, bounds are derived on their complexity. Complexity is measured by the number of logic elements and memory cells, and it is shown that minimum-distance and other decoders for parity-check codes can be realized with complexity proportional to the square of block length, although at the possible expense of a large decoding time. We examine tradeoffs between probability of error and complexity for the several classes of rules."
"The generation of a code of lengthN + 1with an impulse-equivalent autocorrelation leads to a class of2^{N}possible signals. Examination of the root patterns of the generating polynomials of these signals shows that many of the codes that appear to be complex have real counterparts with identical amplitude distributions. The existence of a certain subclass of complex codes with no real equivalents is demonstrated. It is conjectured that this subclass, owing to its nontrivially complex nature, will contain those impulse-equivalent codes possessing the most uniform amplitudes. A theorem is offered which provides a necessary and sufficient condition for determining this subclass of purely complex signals. To test the conjecture, all impulse-equivalent codes up to the length13of several energy levels are examined under two distinct uniformity-of-amplitude criteria. In every case the most uniform codes are found to be members of the subclass. Finally, \"randomly\" generated impulse-equivalent codes are investigated. It is shown that a logical interpretation of the notion of random selection leads to a set of impulse-equivalent codes that is generated from maximal shift-register sequences. This set is, in turn, proven to be contained within the nontrivially complex subclass. The amplitude distributions of these shift register-generated codes up to length64are examined."
"By studying the algebraic structure of the parity check matrix of a linear code we show that the weight distribution is a function only of the quantitiesN_{\\upsilon}^{u}, the number of\\upsiloncolumns of the parity check matrix with ranku. We apply this to obtain a new formula for the weight distribution of the distance3 s-ary Hamming code and for the distance4 s-ary conic code. We give the definition of a conic code and some of its properties."
"An adaptive decoding technique called burst trapping is presented to correct both random and burst errors. Two decoding algorithms are used, one for random errors, and the other for bursts. The former is based on a conventional correction technique, the latter utilizes an encoding procedure for which each information digit appears twice in the data stream, first unchanged, and second combined with (addition modulo2) a check digit of a widely separated later block. Whenever the number of errors within a code block are detected to be too large to correct with the random-error-correcting algorithm, the burst-correcting algorithm corrects these errors by recovering the information from later blocks where it appears in combination with check digits. It is shown that the scheme requires very limited guard space and has limited error propagation. Furthermore, the storage requirement is even smaller than the guard space. This is the only known coding system that has this desirable feature. Results of simulation of such codes over telephone channels indicate that the performance of such codes, when compared with interleaved block codes, offers better results at significantly lower cost."
"It is shown that use of a two-stage decoding procedure consisting simply of an inner stage of block decoding and an outer stage employing a single sequential decoder does not result in an improvement in the computational overflow problem for the sequential decoder. Improvement can, however, result from use of multiple sequential decoders or use of a single sequential decoder with appropriate scrambling. Although the performance improvement resulting from application of these techniques to the additive white Gaussian noise channel is not significant, implementation and rate advantages make iterative sequential decoding techniques worth pursuing. Ia particular, with these techniques, a sequential decoder for a binary symmetric channel can be used regardless of the physical channel characteristics. Such a \"universal\" decoder is expected to be both simple and capable of high rate operation."
"This paper introduces a class of finite-state algorithms which characterize self-similar space-filling curves. The curves enable one to continuously map a line onto anN-dimensional cube, and find application in compressing the bandwidth of arbitrary waveforms. The bandwidth compression is effected in return for an increased susceptibility of the signal to perturbations. The algorithms are represented in a diagrammatic form which enables one to convert theNcoordinates of a point in a cube into a single number representing the distance along a space-filling curve, or vice-versa, merely by visual inspection. The diagrams are always finite in size and may be constructed by following a rather simple numerical procedure."
"This paper is concerned with some of the mathematical aspects of noise in solids. Attention is given to generation-recombination noise. This noise is due to current fluctuations arising from the generation, recombination, or trapping of carriers. We treat only homogeneous systems, and therefore, our descriptive random processes are independent of spatial coordinates. In our model, we associate a counting process\\upsilon_{j}(t), j = 1, 2, \\cdots , Nwith each energy levelE_{j}of the material, where\\upsilon_{j}(t)represents the number of carriers inE_{j}at timet. Thus the statistics of the vector counting process\\bar{V}(t) = (\\upsilon_{1}(t), \\upsilon_{2}(t), \\cdots , \\upsilon_{N}(t))completely determine the noise behavior of the material. Clearly the component processes of\\bar{V}(t)are not statistically independent, and\\Sigma \\upsilon_{j}must be constrained since the total number of carriers is assumed to be fixed. Here we restrict ourselves to the study of the second-order statistics of\\bar{V}(t). Making several physically reasonable assumptions and approximations, we derive the mean, covariance, and spectral density of\\bar{V}(t), which agree with previously published results. While our basic results are not new, the underlying assumptions made in the derivations and the basic formulation of the problem are novel. Our approach is to expand time derivatives of the characteristic function for the vector random process\\bar{V}(t)from which we extract systems of differential equations in the desired statistics. This method exhibits the results as solutions of linear state equations."
"Certain isospectral classes of random processes and certain linear representations of these processes are considered. It is shown that the Gaussian member of each class is the only one having the desirable property of being representable as a linear combination of statistically independent components. For example, among all strictly stationary, band-limited, white-noise processes, only the Gaussian process has mutually independent Nyquist samples. Characterizations among classes wider than isospectral classes are also obtained. For example, let x(t) have a rational spectral density with Karhunen-Loève (K-L) coefficients\\{a_{i}(T_{k})\\}for the interval[- T_{k}, I_{k}]. It is argued that if the coefficients\\{a_{i}(T_{k})\\}are mutually independent for each of a sequence of intervals\\{T_{k}\\}withT_{k} \\rightarrow \\infty, thenx(t)is Gaussian. This conclusion makes use of a more general characterization of Gaussian processes that is obtained using a characterization of the Gaussian distribution among infinitely divisible distributions. It also uses a conjecture about the behavior of the K-L representation of a known functionm(t), t \\in (- \\infty, \\infty)asT_{k} \\rightarrow \\infty. Finally, certain non-Gaussian processes defined as sums of a random number of random pulses are considered. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the independence of linear functionals of this process are obtained."
"High-permeability alloys of the composition 80-percent Ni, 4-percent Mo, remainder Fe, are generally used for recorder heads. The annealing temperature for highest initial permeability in such alloys is 2150°F. This high annealing temperature is not desirable for recorder head laminations since it makes the laminations too soft. Theoretical guidelines for calculating the necessary permeability of recorder head laminations are presented. The lowest possible annealing temperature, yielding sttfficient permeability and high hardness, can be selected from the given experimental data."
"An expression for the inductance of shielded cylindrical air-core solenoids of arbitrary diameter to length ratio is developed. Three shielding configurations are investigated: 1) the use of a coaxial-concentric magnetic shield, 2) the coaxial magnetic shield with conducting end plates, 3) the coaxial magnetic shield with conducting end rings. Case 2) is solved in closed form by separation of variables, and from this result a method is given for predicting the length of the coaxial magnetic shield required to contain the field for the three cases."
"The equilibrium between pump and scattered energy in nonlinear ferromagnetic resonance (NFMR) occurs as a result of the following mechanisms: 1) the nonlinear decrease in magnon lifetime owing to the increase of excited levels nk, and 2) the non-linear frequency shifting of the spin waveband owing to the decrease of the average magnetization of the crystal. Both of these mechanisms tend to diminish the flow of energy into the spin system, but a comparison of the efficiencies of the two, the mechanisms shows that nonlinear frequency shifting predominates over the nonlinear dissipation. In fact, the nonlinear susceptibility of ferromagnetic crystals is determined chiefly by the nonlinear frequency shifting process. This causes the NFMR to be unstable, a result of which is confirmed experimentally."
"In all practical heads the gap deviates from straightness. Such irregularities reduce the output voltage. Assuming that a Gaussian distribution, of variance σ, describes the irregularities, the loss in output is shown to be(13 \\sigma/\\lambda)^{2}dB. Inordinate losses are avoided if the variance in each head be less than 0.1λ."
"By use of the Neeteson approximation, design equations are developed from which the irreversible switching characteristics of a magnetic core working into a series RL load are predicted by numerical calculations."
"Multistable magnetic cores have the well-known property that a certain amount of flux, stored in the core, remains unchanged for a long time. This amount of flux can be broken down by feeding a number of voltage pulses, with a constant volt-second integral and the right polarity, to a core winding. Each of these readout pulses will lower the flux level in the core until there is no flux left, and from that moment a readout pulse only causes a small reversible change in flux, setting up a very short induction EMF in the core windings. A simple integrating network can be used to judge the output voltage of a winding, and it gives no output if the former results from a reversible flux change. If the pulse generator has a repetition frequence of ten cycles per second, the output pulses of the integrating network, after being shaped by a monostable trigger, will be suitable for dialing purposes in conventional telephone systems. A predetermined amount of flux, corresponding to one of the numbers one to ten, can easily be obtained by discharging a loaded condenser in series with a resistance through a core winding."
"A prototype high energy-efficiency recording head for use in a high packing density recording system has been developed. The operation of the head in the writing mode depends on the magnetic field round a thin strip conductor rather than flux leakage from the magnetic circuit as in a conventional ring-type head. The presence of ferrite in the vicinity of the strip increases the field produced for a given strip current. Since its low input impedance is unsuitable for direct connection to electronic circuits, it has been necessary to use an intermediate pulse transformer. By making this transformer an integral part of the recording head, a very compact unit is realizable. Care has been taken in the design of the structure to minimize any stray inductance which may be comparable to that of the head element. Advantages of the proposed head are its good high-frequency performance and suitability for high track densities."
"A new mode of operation of a balanced magnetic circuit is described. With this new mode of operation, which utilizes pulsed current excitation, the detection sensitivity of the magnetic modulator circuit is combined with the high-speed amplification of parametric buildup. This combination permits detection of low-level current pulses applied during a specified time interval of the excitation sequence and provides subsequent amplification of the detected signal. Matched square-loop toroids are used. Signal currents which are a small fraction of the coercive MMF have been successfully detected. The limit of detection sensitivity depends upon the matching of the two cores. The parametric buildup has been made to occur for pump cycle times of 30 μs to 120 μs, depending upon the magnetic material used. The signal information is retained when the pulse excitation sequence is interrupted during buildup because the signal information is stored as a flux unbalance in the two cores during the time interval between excitation pulses. The use of this circuit mode as a sense amplifier for the detection and amplification of sense winding currents in magnetic memories is suggested."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A general treatment of the thermal noise produced by long, somewhat lossy sense lines of the type used in magnetic-film memories is presented. A graphical approach is described which can be used to determine the noise with arbitrary line termination. The comparison is made in a particular case for shorted versus matched resistive terminations, and it is found that the average noise is about the same in both cases although the spectra are different, especially at the lower frequencies. In calculations on a representative memory design it is shown how the 10 μV rms noise voltage caused by the sense line can dictate that the signal at the memory bit site must be of the order of 1 mV."
"Limitations placed upon the NDRO performance of a magnetic film memory device by the detrimental effects of skew and demagnetizing fields are investigated. An expression has been derived that relates these effects to the NDRO critical magnetization angle for devices whose rotational switching can be characterized by a Stoner-Wohlfarth switching astroid. Experimental results for typical devices are presented that substantiate the theory."
"5Mo- and 9Cu-4Mo-Permalloys containing about 80- percent Ni were cold-rolled to tapes 8 μ in thickness and annealed below the recrystallization temperature. Hard cold-rolling of these Permalloys developed the easy axis with high squareness, and the hard axis with low residual induction. Induced anisotropy energy for 9Cu-4Mo-Permalloy tapes was reduced to\\sim 10^{2}erg/cm3by the annealing, without decrease of squareness value along the easy axis or increase of residual induction along the hard axis. However, for 5Mo-Permalloys the squareness value along the easy axis was reduced by annealing. In 5Mo-Permalloy tapes containing 80-percent Ni and 9Cu-4Mo-Permalloy tapes containing 73-percent Ni, applied tension did not affect the magnetic properties measured after the annealing. The influence of the cube-texture, which was developed in an intermediate annealing, disappeared after the annealing at about 500°C."
"The effect of annealing on the microstructure of cylindrical electrodeposited 81-percent Ni, 19-percent Fe films was studied with the electron microscope. The films were deposited onto 5-mil Be-Cu wires having either Au or Cu intermediate layers. The annealing was performed on both free-standing films and on films still attached to the substrate. The initial change in the free-standing films was a rapid recrystallization. After the whole film had recrystallized, normal grain growth was observed. There is evidence that the driving force for the annealing is provided by stresses present in the films. Films annealed while attached to a Au-Be-Cu substrate did not exhibit recrystallization or grain growth, and the electron microscope studies showed that the Ni-Fe grains were pinned by Be-Au which diffuses into the grain boundaries but does not alloy with the Ni-Fe. The films which were annealed while attached to a Cu-Be-Cu substrate behaved essentially like free-standing films. Electron beam microanalysis and electron diffraction studies revealed that Be-Cu diffuses into the Ni-Fe grain boundaries and then alloys with the Ni-Fe. Recrystallization of the alloy can then take place freely."
"The high packing density, low digit current, and partial switching mode characteristics of laminated (monolithic) ferrite memory planes make high-speed operation of the planes attractive. High-speed test data concerning switching time, back voltage, sense signal, and temperature effects are presented for ferrite laminates containing 64 by 64 conductors, spaced 15 mils between centers. Laminates of two ferrite compositions, Mg-Mn-Zn and Mg-Mn, were evaluated. The Mg-Mn laminates exhibit superior disturbed sense signals and temperature characteristics. The Mg-Mn laminates are operable at a continuous 8-MHz rate without heat sinking. Maximum sense signals are obtained using digit current pulses exceeding write current pulses in duration; nonreturn-to-zero digiting is suggested for fully utilizing this characteristic."
"The small element dimensions obtainable with laminated (monolithic) ferrite memory arrays suggest common packaging of the magnetic and semiconductor components to form compact self-contained modules. Coupling the modules with additional integrated circuit nets makes possible memories of megabit capacity with cycle times in the range of 150 to 250 ns. The modular system is described and evaluated for a 512-word 64-bit-per-word test module. Module operation is 2D, two storage intersections per bit. All circuitry is transformerless to facilitate circuit integration. Word currents are supplied by a diode matrix-complementary bi-polar transistor circuit in each module. Bipolar transistor digit-sense circuitry is shared between modules. A nonreturn-to-zero mode of digiting is utilized to maximize sense signal and minimize cycle time. Factors determining access and cycle times are discussed. Operation uniformity and margin data are given."
"An integral/matrix-equation formulation is utilized to calculate the two-dimensional magnetic field produced by two plane and parallel keepered current straps. The mathematical formulation of the problem and its numerical solution are discussed in detail. Results are presented for the magnetic field inside and outside the permeable keepers, assuming different values for the thickness, width, and relative permeability of the keepers."
"The planar Hall effect, although directly related to the magnetoresistance effect, differs in its potential uses by the disposition of the sensing electrodes allowing an internal balance of the excitation voltage drop. An experimental study of ferromagnetic thin film conditions of evaporation, film thickness, composition and shape of the electrodes has been undertaken. Anisotropic Ni-Fe films with various additions of Pd, V, Co, Mo, showed a maximum planar Hall effect for the composition 86-percent Ni, 14-percent Fe. The optimization of the geometrical parameters of the electrodes and the magnetic film elements is described, allowing one to design for maximum output voltage or maximum output current in a short circuited loop. Two schemes are presented for implementation of small NDRO memories."
"An NDRO analog memory was constructed with an electrodeposited Permalloy wire and tested to demonstrate that high speed, low power, and high stability are realized. The interrogation copper wire is wound around the deposited wire, and the wire is driven along the hard axis by a 225-kHz sinusoidal field. The center copper wire, on which Permalloy was deposited, is used for the memory setting and sensing the level. The output signal is a 450-kHz sinusoidal wave, and the amplitude is proportional to the flux level. The flux level was found to be set by means of the pulse field as short as 100 ns. The output signal is quite small, but it is stably amplified using a tuned amplifier because of the definite frequency of the signal. Furthermore, some experiments on operational mode and flux reversal were performed, and the results are discussed."
"The effects of different writing and reading temperatures on the switching voltage waveform, permeability, and flux state of standard nickel-copper-manganese and copper-manganese ferrite memory cores have been investigated over a temperature range of 0 to 70°C. These temperatures are well below the Curie temperatures of the materials being tested. It has been found that writing at a higher temperature than the read temperature leads to increased low temperature voltage switching thresholds, higher low frequency (<40 MHz) permeabilities, lower high frequency (>40 MHz) permeabilities, and flux states almost equal to the equilibrium value for the lower temperature. Read current pulse rise time and duration have been found to have no effect on the increase in threshold with temperature. Externally produced stresses have been used to simulate the effects of temperature changes on the core."
"A novel technique is described to use the magnetic-loading effect of a film on a strip transmission line as a means for measuring the magnetic properties (anisotropy and coercivity) of a thin film. This technique is easy to implement and is particularly useful for film arrays where strip transmission lines are of sufficient length to permit a clear resolution of the film-loading effect."
"Some limitations imposed on the basic attributes of computer elements that arise from physical law rather than from consideration of technology or cost are surveyed in the light of recent literature. In particular, discussions are given of the reliability of storage of information, of the physical size, and of the speed of response of elements of the memory of a large, high-speed, digital computer. The various factors affecting the reliability considered include: logical and physical redundancy, crosstalk and the resulting difficulties of single-particle memory elements; storage lifetime in a nonequilibrium (steady-state) device is also discussed. The limits on size of semiconductor devices include: the minimum size of the voltage pulse needed for nonlinear operation, the limitations set by the need for cooling, by fluctuations in impurity content, and by the resolving power of fabrication processes. The effects of the inertia of matter on the speed of operation are discussed generally, noting the different magnitudes of response of transitions involving electronic rearrangements as compared to spin rotations or nuclear motions. Finally, comments are made on the possibility in principle of ultradense packing because of the extreme smallness of the atomic scale, and on the biological examples of such ultradense packing that exist in the genetic code and the mammalian brain."
"The time delay of a magnetoelastic wave traveling in a constant field gradient is obtained for a lossless ferrimagnet without the use of the small-coupling approximation. The theory is used to calculate the delay of microwave pulses in lithium ferrite and in yttrium iron garnet single crystals. Echoes delayed by magnetoelastic wave propagation in a rectangular bar of single-crystal lithium ferrite are reported."
"Some results of explorations on crystallographic structure perfection of Alnico VS55 single crystals are presented. Segregation and block disorientation in crystals are shown to have some influence on the process of spinodal decomposition in a magnetic field, and on permanent magnet properties."
"The characteristics of electrolytes will be described which prevent composition gradients from developing as the result of differences in Ni++ and Fe++ diffusion, during the electrolytic formation of Ni-Fe films. This is accomplished by using an electrolyte additive which results in a solution which can be operated at a Ni-Fe ratio that is the same as desired in the film, making both the Ni++ and Fe++ deposition diffusion controlled. Using a specific electrolyte with these characteristics, the influence of the substrate on the film composition, structure, and resultant properties has been demonstrated by changing the composition gradients induced by electrolyte diffusion effects. The metallurgical structure (grain size, porosity, crystal texture, composition) and the magnetic properties (H_{c}, H_{k}, \\alpha_{q}, magnetostriction) of films deposited on Au and Cu were examined. Using the Au substrate, films were made at constant deposition conditions from 100 to 4000 Å thick. The average Fe content of the films changed from 28 to 18 percent over this thickness range. Films deposited under the same conditions onto Cu substrates had a lower average Fe content; e.g.,13 percent at 600 Å thick. Film compositions as a function of thickness are described by the sum of two exponential terms; one term takes into account electrolyte diffusion effects on composition and the other term takes into account the electrode effect on composition. Previously reported data are analyzed in the same manner and composition gradients as a function of film thickness are confirmed to be larger than in the work reported here. Low values of coercive force and dispersion were obtained only from films thicker than about 300 Å deposited on Au. These low coercive forces and dispersion are shown to be due to the isotropic crystal structure, fine grain size, and relatively mild composition fluctuations in the Ni-Fe promoted by the characteristics of the Au substrate in the electrolyte. On Cu the films were magnetically isotropic and high in Hcbelow thicknesses of about 4000 Å, due to the highly porous film structure and large grain size induced by the Cu substrate. The deposition potentials, monitored during the formation of the film, reflected the composition of the alloy depositing and provides a technique for choosing the optimum substrate and electrolyte."
"The paper includes a new aspect on elimination of the composition gradient in electrodeposited magnetic thin films. By addition of cathodically reducible ions of antimony, selenium, or tellurium to the electrolyte, it is possible to incorporate these non-magnetic elements in the initially deposited film zones preferably. Because of the high amount of the nonmagnetic element these inhomogeneous zones of the ternary Permalloy film become non-magnetic and do not affect the homogeneous zones of the film used for storage purposes. Besides the examined systems Ni-Fe-Sb, Ni-Fe-Se and Ni-Fe-Te, some other ternary or quaternary systems given in a forecast may show this effect. Experimental conditions and data support the investigations."
"The magnetic properties of vacuum deposited Ni-Co films have been studied as a function of film composition, film thickness, and substrate temperature. The experimental parameters ranged from 400-1000 Å for thickness 17-41-percent Ni for composition and room temperature to 300°C for the substrate temperature. It was found that the magnetoelastic strain coefficient approaches zero in the vicinity of 35-percent Ni in agreement with Tolman's result[1] and remains insensitive to film composition from 30-40- percent Ni. These results are in reasonably good agreement with calculations based on single crystal data and the expression of Callen and Goldberg [10]. The coercive force and anisotropy field are an order of magnitude larger than of nonmagnetostrictive Permalloy films. An unexpected result is an increased coercive field with increasing film thickness while the anisotropy field remains practically constant; the films become inverted at a critical thickness in the order of 750 Å For a wide variation of preparation parameters the crystallite size remained less than 100 Å"
"A consistent method of calculating the single transition output voltage pulse shape of maximum resolution is derived. It follows (in a single mathematical step) both components of the magnetization through the demagnetization, remagnetization, flux collection, and differentiation processes appropriate to magnetic head readout. The single mathematical step is that of finding the Fourier transform of the equivalent of the tape-reproduce head transfer function. Such functions have been published previously. In a limiting case the transform is shown to yield the expected simple result. In general, the transform can only be evaluated numerically and this reflects the extreme complexity of the processes involved. Several graphs are shown of computed pulses and finally an appendix gives the peak amplitude 50- and 20-percent half-widths of computed pulses appropriate to a wide range of parameters."
"Longitudinal magnetostriction of the core material is found to be the principal source of offset and noise in present state-of-the-art flux gate magnetometers. Magnetostrictive offset is identified with even harmonics of the steady-state induced EMF resulting from the periodic elongation (or contraction) of the core material. Magnetostrictive noise is identified with random fluctuations of the magnetostrictive offset caused by frictional forces exceeding the magnetostrictive stress when the core material is near zero elongation. An analytical model and experimental results of magnetostrictive offset and noise are presented. It is expected that flux gate magnetometers with zero magnetostriction of the core material will yield a significant increase in signal-to-noise ratio with corresponding decreases in offset and magnetomotive drive power."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Carrier-frequency gating systems for exciting static electronic switches such as thyristors are examined. The effect of the commutation in the output rectifiers during transmission of the carrier wave is to cause an instantaneous drop in the output voltage during commutation. A compensation for the commutation drop by an overlap technique is proposed, and comparative experimental observations presented on two types of systems."
"Coercivity, induced uniaxial anisotropy field, angular dispersion, residual stress, magnetic domain wall, and magnetization creep of vapor-deposited 81.7 Ni-18.3 Fe films are reported. The thickness and temperature dependence of the coercivity and the induced uniaxial anisotropy field in the thickness range from 30 to 16 000 Å are described. A substrate temperature range is given for minimum residual stress. Lorentz micrographs of magnetic domain walls and magnetization creep of films in the thickness range from 30 to 300 Å are presented. It has been found that Néel walls creep under the influence of a unipolar hard-axis field pulse in the presence of a constant dc easy-axis field. The paper discusses the experimental results in the light of existing creep theories."
"Magnetic thin-film memories that are now in practical use or under development in Japan are surveyed, and related technical problems are discussed. The main problems include the use of multilayered film for NDRO operation and the improvement on its switching characteristics, the confirmation of reliability of thin films, and the selection of flux keeper for very high density memory. States of art in connection with plated-wire memories, planar-film memories, and semipermanent memories are reviewed, and a new type of closed-flux-path memory of high packing density is also introduced."
"Partially populated arrays using very small efficient DRO magnetic film memory cells have been constructed and tested to demonstrate the packaging and performance compatibility of such cells with integrated circuits. The experimental cells were made by vapor deposition of Permalloy, copper, and other materials through a mask in a flat wire configuration with an easy direction along the wire and a closed hard direction. A multiturn sense/digit line increased signal level and reduced drive current. cell densities from 4000 to 64 000 bit/in2have been examined. A typical cross section for an array consisted of 1200 Å Permalloy films with 0.002-inch-wide word lines on 0.004-inch centers with five-turn digit lines on 0.015-inch centers (16 000 bit/in). Word currents for the 0.002-inch-wide word lines were typically 80 to 100 mA. Digit currents for the five-turn digit lines were typically 8 to 12 mA, and signal outputs were typically 5 to 7 mV with signals 15 ns in duration."
"A technique is described wherein reflectivity data taken at two angles of incidence are used to obtain pertinent information on the optical fine structure of the rare-earth iron garnets. The complex index of refraction is determined for GdIG and TbIG over an energy range of 2 to 5 eV. From this data the absorption coefficient is calculated, and by approximating the absorption characteristic with a series of Lorentzian shaped lines detailed information such as transition oscillator strength and excited state lifetimes is obtained. In general the fine-structure oscillator strengths are found to bef \\approx 10^{-2}and lifetimes are\\tau \\approx 10^{-6}. The data show some evidence of the presence of rare-earth ion transitions in the spectra, and the possibility of optical pumping to effect a change in Tb sublattice magnetization in TbIG is discussed."
"The effect of Gd, In, and Al substitution on magnetic and resonance properties in the system {Y3-2x-aCa2xGda} [Fe2-zInz]- (Fe3-x-yVxAly)O12is reported for0.5 \\leq x \\leq 0.9, 0 \\leq a \\leq 1.1, 0 \\leq y \\leq 0.8, andz = 0, 0.5. It is shown that compositions exist in this system that display improvements over conventional garnets in this respect to temperature stability andX-band resonance linewidth. The series Y3-2xCa2xFe4.75-xVxIn0.25O12is suggested as one such optimal series of compositions."
"Results of studies on processing conditions for Bi3-2xCa2xFe2Fe3-xVxO12ferrite are given. The advantages of using oxygen atmospheres during sintering are detailed. These advantages relate not only to the magnetic and dielectric properties but also to the final density of the sintered piece. Densities of 99 percent of the X-ray theoretical value were obtained with oxygen sintering; whereas, only 96 percent was obtained by sintering in air. The narrow range of sintering temperatures normally found for this class of materials is seen to be extended by the use of oxygen sintering. The reasons for these improvements are given in terms of suppression of liberated oxygen. Volatilization of bismuth occurs, if at all, at very low levels during the final firing. Also, changes in magnetization with increasing sintering temperature are inconsistent with increasing loss of bismuth."
"Microwave properties, such as the threshold field hcfor the parallel pump instability, the effective linewidthW, and the dielectric loss tangent have been measured for a number of fine-grain Ni and Mg ferrites. Ferrite powders, prepared by spray drying of sulfate solutions and subsequent roasting, were sintered by continuous hot pressing. Grain sizes as small as 0.5 μm in dense materials were so obtained. The Mg ferrites showed excellent microwave properties (h_{c} = 110Oe,W(H_{i} \\approx 0) = 55Oe,\\tan \\delta_{\\epsilon) = 2 \\times 10^{-4}). The experimental data suggest that the mean free path of parametrically excited spin waves is of the order of the grain diameter. The Ni ferrites showed comparable values of hcbut they had much larger dielectric losses (\\tan \\delta_{\\epsilon} \\simeq 1 \\times 10^{-3}). AlsoW(H_{i} \\approx 0)is much more strongly affected by the fine graining (up to 410 Oe). The bad magnetic properties of the fine-grain Ni ferrites are tentatively attributed to stresses near the grain boundaries."
"Investigation of the HF permeability of toroidal-shaped ferrite samples in a perpendicular dc field. Dense polycrystalline Ni-Zn and Li-Zn samples have been measured in the 200-600 MHz range, as well as a rather perfect YIG single crystal. Measurements were taken in a coaxial resonator. The samples were sandwiched between Armco iron pole pieces. The permeability appeared to be inversely proportional to the dc field. At 200 MHz a permeability of 30 with\\tan \\delta = 0.01could be obtained, as well as a permeability of 40 with\\tan \\delta = 0.03. At 600 MHz the permeability for\\tan \\delta = 0.01was 18. The results found with the single crystal could be understood in some detail from the magnetization and anisotropy data. The remaining loss factor is assumed to be due to persisting domains."
"The first-order spin-wave instability threshold has been measured at 9.1 GHz for polycrystalline yttrium iron garnet as a function of sample shape, sample orientation, pump configuration, and magnetization stake. Spheres, rods, and thin disks were used. The results for saturated samples show that sample shape has a strong influence on the threshold. The data are in good agreement with theory, except for the thin disk samples. The disk data are affected strongly by annealing and the threshold field dependence on static field is modified by inhomogeneous demagnetizing fields. Results for partially magnetized samples indicate that the theory for saturated samples is directly applicable to partially magnetized systems if demagnetizing factors appropriate to the domain shape and not sample shape are used. In the limit of zero external field, the threshold for thin disks with the microwave field in the disk plane is equal to the perpendicular pump threshold for axially magnetized rods. This result indicates that the thin disks demagnetize by the formation of rod-shaped domains oriented normal to the disk. The disk results for pumping with the microwave field normal to the disk are also consistent with this qualitative domain model. Domain shape appears to play essentially the same role in determining thresholds for partially magnetized systems that sample shape does for saturated systems."
"The noise generated in the bit-sense lines of a magnetic-film memory during the write operation consists of two components: the drive noise due to energizing the line under consideration, and the interaction noise caused by coupling between the bit-sense lines. The latter component is the subject of this paper. By an analysis of pulse propagation in a transmission system consisting of two identical parallel strip lines above a stratified ground plate, it is shown that the relative significance of the interaction noise increases with line-to-ground spacing and that its time derivative at read time can be made to vanish by an appropriate stratification of the ground plate. The stratification which achieves this is close to the one for which the time derivative of the drive noise has a minimum. Hence the time derivative of the write noise, which should be as small as possible for best rejection by the sense system, can be reduced by ground-plate stratification. It can also be reduced by keeping the ground plate at a low temperature."
"Earlier work showed that some low-field magnetic properties of high-permeability Ni-Fe alloys containing about 80-percent Ni could be explained by considering the effect of the filling of the 3d vacancies of the Ni atoms by the outermost electrons of an added nonferromagnetic element. This work is extended to show how the copper content of some Ni-Fe-Cu-Mo alloys, by influencing their ordering behavior, affects the heat treatment required to give high permeability."
"In memory applications the desire to increase speed by eliminating the rewrite cycle has intensified the interest in nondestructive readout (NDRO) operation. This paper is concerned with grooved structures considering the effect of grooves parallel to the easy axis in relaxing the limitations imposed by skew and angular dispersion upon the allowable word field. The reasons for the improved NDRO threshold are discussed on the basis of a quasi-static model assuming uniform magnetizations in the thick and in the thin regions of the film with a springlike exchange coupling.M-Hloops and NDRO thresholds are calculated and compared with experimental evidence. Landau-Lifshitz equation is applied to the same two-magnetizations model to calculate voltage waveforms of the output signal. Calculated peaks are shown to be larger than for an ungrooved film operating under NDRO limitations. The results of inductive pulse measurements indicate a similar improvement."
"Many memory designs reduce the influence of de-metizagning fields by semiclosing the flux path by means of a multilayer structure. Some quantitative results concerning the regions of magnetization curling that occur in these structures are presented here. It is shown, for the case of two identical coupled layers, that the width of the curling region is proportional to the square root of the dimensionless quantityM^{2}/K, whereMis the magnetication andKthe anisotropy constant, and to the geometric mean of the layer thickness and the interlayer separation. The case of a uniaxial layer coupled to an isotropic flux keeper is also examined. The results are compared to those found previously for single-layer films."
"Cobalt films, with a small weight percentage of phosphorus, have been made by electroless deposition from hypophosphite baths. A wide variation of their magnetic properties, and in particular coercivity, has been observed. Observations of these films by transmission electron microscopy have demonstrated their particle nature. Attempts are made to correlate the observed coercivity with crystallite (or particle) size, and it is shown that although the crystallite size is of great importance, it is not necessarily the only factor determining the coercivity."
"The theory of the motions of a fine magnetic particle in a Newtonian viscous medium under the influence of a magnetic field is derived along with applicable constraints. Solutions resulting in rotation and translation are considered along with extensions to multiparticle assemblages and the limitations imposed by non-Newtonian fluids."
"A review of multilayer film applications to memory elements is given. Among the topics discussed are the development of creep-free elements by use of multilayer or composite films, the application of magnetostatically coupled films and of exchange coupled films for DRO and NDRO memories, and finally the potential applications of multilayer films to magnetooptic memories. The latter includes multilayer films made of two strongly ferromagnetic films separated by a low-Curie-temperature intermediate layer. Their coercivity changes rapidly with temperature and this original property can be used to make magnetooptic memories."
"A permeability measurement technique is discussed for evaluating the frequency response of sintered and cast ferrite keepers. Real and imaginary parts of the relative permeability for several ferrite materials in both sintered and cast form are compared over a large frequency range. The large difference between sintered and cast keepers at low frequencies and the difference in their resonance behavior at high frequencies is to be noted in particular. Optimization of the cast keeper permeability is investigated through the parameters of ferrite particle permeability and porosity. The dependence of particle permeability on particle size, and of porosity on particle size distribution is established and then exploited to obtain a higher permeability keeper."
"Single crystals of Ni ferrites and Ni-Zn ferrites having good uniformity were prepared by a new floating zone technique. In the preparation of the Ni-ferrite single crystal the initial molten zone was made from the material having a composition different from that of seed crystal. This made the composition of precipitate from molten zone the same as that of the seed, and the composition of crystal uniform throughout the entire body. In the apparatus a halogen lamp and the sample were placed, respectively, on the two focal points of a closed elliptical reflector. Under an oxygen pressure of 30 atm, the vaporization of ZnO and the precipitation of another phase in Ni-Zn ferrite single crystals can be almost eliminated."
"The ac magnetostriction of transformer sheet has been measured with longitudinal compression up to 2000 lbf/in2(13 800 kN.m-2). Longitudinal stress causes a sudden increase in magnetostriction, while normal stress smooths out the steplike change. Si-Fe sheet from three different manufacturers is shown to have widely varying stress sensitivities, which are due entirely to differences in the insulating coatings on the laminations. Application of a glass coating greatly reduces the stress sensitivity, such that longitudinal stresses over 1100 lbf/in2(7600 kN.m-2) are needed to produce any increase in magnetostriction. Both longitudinal and normal compression change the domain structure from simple 180-degree walls to a more complicated structure where most of the magnetization is at 90 degrees to the rolling direction. This stress structure is conducive to high positive magnetostriction."
"The saturation approach law in grain-oriented polycrystals of cubic materials is studied, taking into account the magnetic interactions among grains, as a function of the crystalline magnetic anisotropy constants K1and K2, and of a grain dispersion parameter τ. This parameter gives in the two limits\\tau \\rightarrow 0and\\tau \\rightarrow \\infina single crystal and a perfectly isotropic polycrystal, respectively. The effect of internal stresses is also taken into account, and it is shown to have little influence on the saturation approach law, which, in grain-oriented materials, is dominated by the spread of the grain distribution. The obtained results suggest one of the most sensitive methods for determining such a spread in these materials from saturation approach measurements, particularly when τ is very small. The made assumptions on the grain distribution are general enough to obtain as particular cases, the Goss texture, the cubic texture, and the fiber texture. Examples of application of the theory to practical cases of grain-oriented Fe-Si 3- percent laminations are given."
"The function of the free-surface poles appearing on oriented silicon-iron strips in controlling the domain structure is discussed. The energy of a simple 180° domain structure is given as a function of the dimensions, angle of dip, and applied field; this model is shown to give high values of the magnetostatic energy for angles of misorientation greater than 2°. On general theoretical grounds, the proportion of 90° domains is calculated as a function of the misorientation and is shown to agree with experiment. A detailed model of the 90° domain structure is discussed; its magnetostatic energy is estimated and predictions of the equilibrium domain size are in reasonable agreement with observation."
"Magnetic tape duplication by the contact printing method was first developed in 1949, but there were still many difficulties in the way of successful duplication at short wavelength signals of a few micrometers. The bifilar tape winding system has been newly developed for successful duplication of signals as short as 2 μm. The optimum strength of the transfer field for maximum output of the duplicated slave tape is exactly the same value even at very short wavelengths. The optimum coercivity of the master tape is about two and half times that of the slave tape. The decrease of the recorded master tape at 2-μm wavelength is within 2 dB for the first duplication with no further decrease after more than hundreds duplications. This system is applied to a video tape duplicator and can transfer automatically a 1-hour program within 2 minutes. The duplicated picture quality is almost undiscernible from the master. This system is also adaptable to the duplication of audio, digital, and any other magnetic tapes or sheet information."
"Magnitude and distribution of the write field generated in the gap region of a miniaturized single-turn recording head are computed on the basis of a micromagnetic analysis. The head consists of a copper strip conductor coated with a high-permeability film containing a gap. Computations predict that magnetic-film heads can produce fields adequate for writing on conventional recording media with currents of a few hundred milliamperes. Also, the results indicate that the write resolution of such heads may be expected to be better than that of heads now in use."
"Measurements made on cylindrical niobium samples with test coils in ac magnetic fields of 290 Hz frequency have shown that the superconducting penetration depth λ can be expressed as\\lambda = \\lambda_{0} + aH^{2} + bH^{4} + ..., where λ0is the penetration depth at zero field andHis the surface field. In the region ofH = 800to 1300 gauss, λ can be approximated as\\lambda = \\lambda_{0}bH^{4}, where\\lambda_{0} = 580Å,b = 8.3 \\times 10^{-12}Å/G4. The voltage waveforms from the test coils displayed on an oscilloscope showed good agreement with predicted curves based on this penetration depth. From the voltage signals surface losses could be determined. Loss measurements made on cylinders of niobium with cold worked surfaces gave surprising results. The measured losses were low if the sample was cooled to the measuring temperature quickly, but the losses could be several hundred times higher if the cooling rate was slow. After the sample was annealed, the losses were low and independent of the cooling rate. Data is also given for loss measurements at various temperatures."
"The preparation of submicroscopic elongated iron particles by pseudomorphic reduction of α-FeOOH with hydrogen has been studied. At a temperature of 350°C rapid sintering occurs of the iron particles formed. At temperatures below 300°C sintering is largely absent but the reaction is too slow. It has been found that the reduction rate at low temperatures can be increased, and hence sintering diminished, by absorption of Ag+ or Co+ ions on the surface of the iron oxide particles, leading to iron powders with improved magnetic properties. When Sn2+is adsorbed the reaction rate decreases. Yet the coercivity of the iron powders obtained is considerably increased, probably also due to a diminished sintering."
"A higher track density would increase the capacity of magnetic recording systems and could reduce the time required for access to the contents. Higher track densities can be achieved by registering accurately narrow recorded tracks spaced closely together. A magnetic head capable of recording information at high linear densities within extremely narrow tracks has been developed. Narrow tracks are achieved by offsetting the magnetic pole pieces of the head so that only the narrow overlapping portions form the effective writing and reading section. The head performance is determined analytically and experimentally."
"Nickel films have been deposited in conventional high vacuum, ultra-high vacuum, and in controlled contaminant, ultra-high vacuum environments. High field saturation magnetization Msmeasurements on the films made in high vacuum and an oxygen-contaminated ultra-high vacuum system show that they posses low values of Msfor film thicknesses of 1000 Å. The normal moments observed for ultra-high vacuum deposited films lead to the conclusion that the low Msvalues are associated with the oxygen and are caused by a true loss of effective magnetization rather than coupled superparamagnetism or a ripple blocking field. Supplementary torque and ferromagnetic resonance studies on the Ni and two different Ni-Fe compositions also show that the grain boundary perpendicular anisotropy models are not particularly relevant for films made under such nominal technical vacuum conditions."
"The development of a linear ferrite core used in an inductively coupled read-only store application is described. In addition to the normally desired linear relation betweenBandH, the application also requires wide-range temperature stability and low magnetostrictive ringing. A Ni-Zn ferrite, which was proposed for the application, was determined to be inadequate in its performance. However, it was found that if the cores were vibrated at an ultrasonic frequency in a slurry of fine abrasive and alcohol, the pulse properties of the devices were improved. While the reversible permeability was decreased by the processing, the linearity of theB-Hcurve was improved and the hysteresis losses were decreased. Also, the magnetostrictive ringing decreased and temperature stability improved. Further tests, which were made in an attempt to understand the phenomenon, showed that the improvement in properties resulted from a stress-induced anisotropy caused by the vibration in the slurry."
"The mechanism of magnetic coupling in multilayer films was investigated by analyzing the shape of the magnetoresistance hysteresis loops. A magnetic field was applied during the deposition of the layers in a high vacuum. Each film consisted of a soft layer of Ni-Fe and a hard layer of Co separated by intermediate laminations of SiO or Ag. The thickness of the intermediate lamination varied from 100 to about 5000 Å. The magnetoresistance hysteresis loop of the soft layer was displaced along the driving field axis. The displacement reaches a maximum value when the intermediate lamination has a thickness of about 700 Å and seems to be caused by a negative magnetic coupling. It was also found that the material of the intermediate lamination does not materially alter the characteristics of the films. Both phenomena were discussed in terms of magnetostatic interactions between uniaxial single-domain particles. The explanation for the interfacial energy based on long-range interactions points out that short-range interactions between the separated layers can be neglected."
"An analysis of a pair of exchange-coupled magnetic thin films is outlined. The previous formulation of Goto et al. ensures that the first variation of the magnetic free energy is zero. In the present paper, an expression for the second variation of the energy is presented. Evaluation of this expression determines the stability of solutions to the coupled-film equations derived by Goto et al. In this way, magnetization curves and critical field plots are obtained exactly (i.e., the equations are not approximated) for pairs of exchange-coupled magnetic thin films. These results enable evaluation of coupled films as nondestructive readout (NDRO) memory elements."
"Temperature-stable low-noise memory cores made from the substituted lithium and nickel ferrites were studied. Ferrite compositions which are suitable for miniature cores have been developed by studying magnetic properties of the ferrite in the system Li-M-M' and Ni-M-M' ferrite (M:Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn). Technological approaches for fabricating small memory cores were made by studying the effect of ferrite-powder parameters and sintering conditions on magnetic properties of the substituted ferrites. Typical pulse characteristics taken with coincident current mode for cores of 0.48, 0.32, and 0.27 mm φ OD are presented. It was found that the Ni-Mn-F(II) ferrites are suitable for a low-drive high signal-to-noise ratio (dV1/dVz) temperature-stable memory core."
"A Co-Pt 50-50 single crystal annealed at 950°C was quenched very rapidly and subsequently annealed in the range 200-750°C in the presence of a magnetic field. For annealing temperatures below the Curie temperature, an analysis of the induced magnetic anisotropy detects both directional ordering and the onset of long range ordering. If the magnetic field is directed along one of the fourfold axes of the initially disordered crystal, a uniaxial anisotropy is detected due to a preferential development of the ordered regions having their tetragonal axis parallel to the direction of the magnetic field. Although this effect is weak below the Curie temperature due to the low diffusion rate, it is sufficient to determine the later development of order at higher temperatures. After such a heat treatment up to 750°C, the analysis of the magnetization curves and a study of the neutron diffraction pattern show that the entire specimen consists of practically one single-ordered region having its tetragonal axis in the direction of the applied magnetic field."
"The transverse bias susceptibility and the angular dispersion were measured for the purpose of testing the validity of the dispersion theory in polycrystalline ferromagnetic films. If each measurement is made on a localized small region of a sample, the field dependence of the transverse bias susceptibility\\chit(h)agrees very well with the theoretical prediction, wherehis the bias field normalized by the anisotropy field. Thus it is possible to determine the random local anisotropyKor the structure constantSof the region giving rise to the magnetization ripple. The dependence of the dispersion anisotropy productα90Kuon the structure constantSshows that the dispersion theory of Hoffmann was quite reliable. If similar experiments were performed for the whole area of each film, considerable discrepancy is found between theory and experiment in many films. This discrepancy can be interpreted as resulting from the long wavelength dispersion or the extrinsic dispersion."
"Ferromagnetic properties are observed in concentrated Pd-Cr alloys. At low temperature (T < 70°K), these alloys display magnetic hysteresis characteristic of exchange anisotropy: large coercive field and asymmetric hysteresis loop."
"A square-loop magnetic core model,\\dot{\\phi} = \\dot{\\phi}_{elastic}(F,\\dot{F}) + \\dot{\\phi}_{inelastic} (F,\\phi), has been incorporated into the automated circuit-analysis computer-program TRAC. The modified program, named MTRAC, includes supplementary provisions for successive modes of operation, nonlinear resistor and inductor models, normal and circuit-failure run termination, monitor printout for debugging, etc. Based on linearization of nonlinear circuit elements and Kirchoff's current law, the computation involves an iterative solution ofV] = T]/[H], whereV] is the nodal-voltage matrix andT] and [H] are known current and conductance matrices of the circuit. Expressions are derived for the contributions to the [H] andT] matrices of various linear and nonlinear circuit elements, including magnetic cores. The input core parameters are based on either\\phi(F)orB(H)data. The organization of MTRAC and that of a circuit-element subroutine are outlined. Time variables (voltages, currents, MMFs, fluxes, etc.) of complex magnetic-core circuits (up to 60 nodes) are computed and plotted automatically. All that the user has to supply is the general run-control specifications, the circuit topology, and the values of the circuit-element parameters. An example is given for a core-diode shift register."
"X-ray diffraction topographic methods, namely, Lang's transmission topography, are briefly described. Besides different lattice defects, magnetic domains can be made visible by these methods. A number of experiments illustrating the main features of the contrast produced on domain walls are shown. The condition of visibility of 90° walls was found and interpreted on the basis of the magnetostrictive deformation of the crystal. Details of the contrast were explained using the dynamical theory of X-ray diffraction. Applications of X-ray topography to the study of magnetic domains are suggested, namely, the investigation of internal domain structures in nontransparent samples, the study of the fine structure of the walls inside the specimen, the examination of stress fields around domain walls, and the observation of domain interaction with other lattice defects."
"Orthoferrites are of general formula RFeO3where R is any rare earth or yttrium. They are usually flux grown as large single crystals and then processed to provide platelets several mils in thickness. A high uniaxial anisotropy gives rise to a single unique easy magnetization direction parallel to thecaxis above room temperature in all orthoferrites except SmFeO3. A low saturation magnetization results from the canting of a pair of anti-parallel spin systems. Platelets prepared so that the easy axis of magnetization is normal to the planar surface display a serpentine domain pattern made visible by the Faraday effect. Under specific conditions cylindrical domains are observed. These domains, which in Sm0.55Tb0.45FeO3are as small as 0.8 mil in diameter, can be manipulated to perform memory and logic. Three techniques can be used to propagate cylindrical domains. The first uses a sequence of current pulses applied to a conductor array. The second requires an in-plane rotating field acting on a structured Permalloy pattern to generate traveling positive and negative poles. These poles selectively attract and repel a cylindrical domain and thereby control its motion. The movement of an inchworm most closely approximates the propagation mechanism of the third technique. Interacting a pulsating domain with a wedge-like Permalloy pattern results in a unidirectional movement."
"The material requirements of circular cylindrical domain devices are discussed. The current status of the search for circular domain materials is summarized with respect to the anisotropy field Hkand the saturation magnetization Msby a chart showing the influence of these quantities on the size, stability and mobility of the circular domains. A preferred region is defined on the chart and representative materials are plotted. At the present time, the preferred region is most closely approached by certain mixed rare-earth orthoferrites and the aluminum substituted hexagonal ferrites."
"A close-packed array of circular domains was formed by a pulsed magnetic field in a 1-mil-thick slab of"
"The measurements of the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity, Seebeck coefficient, and the saturation magnetization were performed on polycrystals Cu0.5Fe2.5O4+γWith all samples the anomalous behavior above 400°C was observed which manifested itself by a sudden increase of electrical resistivity, by the change fromn-top-type of electrical conductivity, and by the irreversible course of the magnetization. Contrary to physical properties, the chemical analysis revealed no significant changes in the composition of ferrites during the transformation. Taking into account the electrical, magnetic, and X-ray investigation it was concluded that in quenched samples (Cu1++ Fe3+) and Cu2++ Fe2+) pairs are more stable in the tetrahedral and the octahedral sites of the spinel lattice, respectively. After the transformation only Cu1+and Fe3+are present in the ferrites which initiates their decomposition into haematite and delafossite."
"Field annealing of the uniaxial anisotropy was investigated for 76-percent Ni-24-percent Fe films in the temperature range between 300 and 500°C. The films were evaporated and annealed in ultrahigh vacuum. The discussion and evaluation of the results are based on a reordering model with constant numbers of anisotropy sources for a given constant annealing temperature. The model was confirmed by the measured dependence of the anisotropy on the direction of the annealing field. During annealing treatment below 400°C only parts of the anisotropy sources could be reoriented. Above 450°C the easy axis could be completely turned over to the direction of the applied field. Analysis of the anisotropy isotherms revealed three different contributions to the anisotropy. The first, with the smallest relaxation times, contributed only a few percent to the whole anisotropy. The second part gave a contribution of about 15 percent, while the main contribution comes from a process which is assumed to be iron pair reorientation. The relaxation times for this process were close to the data of Ferguson [8] for iron-pair ordering in bulk material. They were greater by a factor of ten than those reported by Kneer and Zinn [3]."
"The storage properties of flat thin Ni-Fe films can be improved by diffusing a nonmagnetic metal into them. Usually this metal is deposited on the Ni-Fe film in a vacuum chamber. By this well-known technique one can also electroplate the non-magnetic overlay. Several metals, e.g., Zn, Cd, Cu, Pb, Sn, Bi, and In have been tried. Tin gave the best reproducibility. The dispersion remains almost unchanged up to aH_{c}/H_{k}ratio of 1, so that very good bit current margins are achieved. To avoid demagnetization effects, which could mask the film qualities, large spots were investigated. It was found that the creep threshold is independent of the film thickness (350-1000 Å). An explanation for this desirable behavior can be found if one assumes that the nonmagnetic metal fills up and enlarges easy-diffusion paths in the film and thus creates obstacles for a creeping wall. Despite the low diffusion temperature for Sn, 50-100°C, the long-time stability of the magnetic parameters is good, and it is possible to get uniform magnetic parameters on large memory planes."
"An efficient, flexible method for evaluating flux-current-force-position relationships in nonlinear magnetically coupled electromechanical systems is described. Given these relationships, the system differential equations may be solved simply under the control of a differential equation solving program such as digital simulation language-360 (DSL-360). The method starts from a description of the system in primary physical terms (such as geometric dimensions, magnetization curves, external mechanical forces, voltage, etc.), computes the system magnetic fluxes, field energy, and forces, while simultaneously proceeding through a differential equation solution to produce a description of system performance. Unless great care is exercised when programming the problem, excessive digital computer execution could be required. A particularly valuable feature of this method is the efficiency with which the total problem solution is obtained."
"The maximum evaluation for variations of a signal proportional to a threshold element input composition is calculated. A design procedure is developed for a logical element with an absolute magnitude of its output composition independent of the input code. The method suggested makes it possible to design a complete binary summer on one multiaperture magnetic core."
"A new technique for the separation of strongly magnetic powders by particle size has led to observations of discontinuous magnetization changes in samples of cobalt-rare-earth particles. These magnetization jumps were investigated in a single particle, and it was found that they occurred at various reproducible and strongly quantized fields, whose value depended on the value of the field previously applied to saturate the sample. This suggested that the coercive force of these materials might be very sensitive to the nature of the surface, which was verified experimentally. These results add support to the interpretation of the magnetic properties of high-crystal-anisotropy permanent magnet materials in terms of domain boundary nucleation and motion."
"Considerable interest has been centered around rare-earth-cobalt magnets during recent years. For the last two years we have been carrying out a research program in the general area of rare-earth-cobalt magnets. At this time, we have successfully developed a rare-earth-cobalt magnet with close to the attainable limit of magnetic properties. Our best magnets show the following properties:B^{H}c, 8000-9000 Oe;M^{H}c, 25 000 Oe; Br, 8000-9000 G;(BH)_{\\max}, 16-20 \\times 10^{6}G - Oe. The magnet is based on the rare-earth-cobalt compound RCo5, where R is samarium. Processing includes induction heat or arc melting, pulverizing to roughly domain size, compacting in hydraulic press in magnetic field to suitable shape and size, sintering, finishing, magnetizing, and stabilizing. Most of our laboratory production thus far has been ring magnets for PPM stacks of traveling wave tubes. These magnets have outperformed the best available platinum-cobalt magnets from both magnetic and thermal stability points of view in actual tube qualification tests."
"The nucleation field, by the curling mode, is calculated for an ideal chain of identical ferromagnetic spheres as a function of the angle between the applied magnetic field and the chain axis, and of the radius of the spheres, neglecting magnetocrystalline anistropy. Computations for an infinite chain using first- and second-order perturbation theory yield practically the same results so that higher order terms can certainly be neglected. Comparison with experiment will be possible only when measurements are carried out on larger radii than those experiments which have been done so far."
"A very high resolution Bitter pattern technique is used to study low-frequency creep in Bloch-wall Permalloy films. The basic wall motion consists of a sudden displacement when the hard-axis exciting field passes through two critical transition values. A net displacement per half-cycle or slow pulse occurs in the presence of an easy-axis bias. The motion appears to be gyro-magnetically induced by the precession of the magnetization in the wall about a demagnetizing field perpendicular to the wall plane. The demagnetizing field may be produced by an instability in the relation between the hard-axis field and the magnetization in the domains on sides of the wall rather than in the wall."
"A subject of great theoretical and experimental interest in digital recording in recent years has been the correlation between recording behavior and the magnetic properties of the recording media. Several isolated ranges of variation of media parameters have been explored with somewhat diverse results. The intent of this communication is to provide a comprehensive view over the entire range of the technologically interesting values of the media parameters, through a theoretical simulation of the recording process based on harmonic analysis. The remanent induction was the primary variable in this study, ranging from 500-18 000 gauss, while the coercivity and thickness were varied as parameters in the range 50-800 Oe and5-1250 \\times 10^{-8}m, respectively. The results were fitted to a hyperplane of the formPW_{50} = CH_{c}\\alpha_{1}B_{r}\\alpha_{2}t\\alpha_{3}. For small thickness (t \\leq 50 \\times 10^{-8}m) we found\\alpha_{1} = -0.287 , \\alpha = 0.272, \\alpha_{3} = 0.290. For large thickness (t > 100 \\times 10^{-8}m) we found\\alpha_{1} = -0.277, \\alpha_{2} = 0.260,\\alpha_{3} = 0.470with the change in α3attributed to an effective spacing loss."
"A model of a magnetic film subjected to a homogeneous easy-axis field and an inhomogeneous hard-axis field is discussed that includes exchange, anisotropy, and magnetostatic effects. The dynamic behavior is described by the viscous flow approximation of the equation of motion in Gilbert's form. First, a variational approach, assuming intrinsic damping to be the only loss mechanism, yields the propagation speed of a partially reversed region in close agreement with the experiment. In a second approach, the equation of motion is linearized with respect to the angle between the magnetization and the easy axis. Provided that the hard-axis field has a rectangular shape, the equation of motion can be solved rigorously in time and space. This solution gives an exact description of the initial behavior of the magnetization. In combination with the values for infinite time (static case) a good interpolation for intermediate times is found."
"The behavior of a separate 180-degree domain wall subjected to the action of a pulse magnetic field is investigated in Permalloy films of the thickness range of 260-4000 Å. The nature of the wall motion is strongly dependent on the accuracy of adjusting the direction of the field relative to the easy axis. In respect to the type of dependence of the wall velocity on the pulse-field amplitudeH, studied films may be divided into four groups. In two groups there is a nonlinear dependence\\upsilon(H), the main dynamic characteristic of which should be the second coefficient of mobilityG\"measured at a comparatively high velocity. In the thickness region of 700-900 Å, the mobilityG\"has a clearly defined minimum caused by the high crosstie density. The possibility of calculating the spin-damping coefficient α from data on domain-wall mobility is discussed. The use of conventional formulas derived for the unidimensional domain wall leads to α values nearly 10 times higher than αrcalculated from the width of the ferromagnetic resonance line. It is concluded that in the film thickness range of 400-900 Å and in thicker films it is still impossible to calculate the spin-damping factor α from data of domain-wall mobility because the complicated wall structure should be taken into account."
"A storage array tester and analyzer is described which is equipped with a new type of single-shot sampling system. This sampling system takes 30 amplitude samples of the presented signal, with sample spacings down to 1 ns, which allows a thorough analysis of batch-fabricated memory element arrays. Driving of the array elements is done with one set of current generators which are via reed relay networks connected with the elements under test. Pulses with rise times down to 5 ns are propagated through the complex networks without appreciable distortion."
"A phenomenological theory of creep is proposed which relates the threshold for creep and the creep distance per cycle of applied transverse field to film material parameters. The model accommodates both quasi-static and dynamic effects. Key parameters in the theory relate to wall energy, material inhomogeneity, and the variation of wall contour, shape, and width with the application of transverse fields. The model assumes an abrupt creep threshold, a creep distance per cycle of transverse field which is typically a fraction of the wall width, and a creep distance per cycle of transverse field which is linear in the magnitude of the transverse field in the neighborhood of the threshold fields. A mechanical analog of the simple linearized theory has been constructed to demonstrate creep properties. In the model energetic binding of a wall to film inhomogeneities is replaced by mechanical friction, the energy storage properties of the walls by elastic bodies, and the driving fields by mechanical forces. The mechanical analog clearly demonstrates many of the aspects of creep."
"Both semiconductors and magnetic materials exhibit interesting properties that can be used in electronic devices. A material that combines these properties, i.e., a magnetic semiconductor, could show interesting cross effects, such as a large magnetoresistance, or hysteresis and the associated memory phenomena introduced in the semiconductive properties. The discovery of ferromagnetic semiconductors (EuSe, CdCr2Se4, etc.) and the subsequent study of their properties has shown that a strong interaction between charge carriers and magnetic properties indeed exists. In this paper the available experimental information on cross effects between electric and magnetic properties is reviewed. The observed phenomena are discussed on the basis of a simple model with an exchange interaction between the charge carriers and the magnetic moments. Finally, the possibilities for observing the Gunn effect in magnetic semiconductors is discussed."
"Presently, insufficient material data is available to predict core losses at high flux densities with complex flux waveforms. A steel tester is described whereby this data can be obtained from electrical steel at densities in excess of 20 kG. The flux wave-form can be selected and controlled to study the influence of harmonics and to simulate actual flux conditions existing in magnetic circuits. An electromechanical waveform generator is capable of synthesizing waveforms of 30 to 90 Hz fundamental with phase and amplitude selected odd harmonics up to the eleventh. This signal is amplified to excite Epstein sample strips placed in a water-cooled test yoke up to 140 kA/m. Feedback technique is applied to keep total distortion between input signal and flux waveform below 4 percent at peak excitation. The flux density is measured with air-flux compensated search coils. A calorimetric method is used to measure core losses by recording the temperature rise of thermistors placed between sample strips. Some test results are presented to demonstrate the flexibility and usefulness of the steel tester."
"An on-line modified Belson test is used to correlate plating parameters with memory performance. The method compares favorably with more complicated and time-consuming conventional memory tests."
"The longitudinal magnetooptic Kerr reflection of simple multilayer structures consisting of 4 layers and less were measured at a wavelength of λ = 6328 Å and compared with theory. The agreement is good, considering the dependence of the complex index of refraction of the Fe films on thickness. The films were evaporated in a vacuum of 10-5torr. The best results were obtained with the combination ZnS-Fe-MgF2-Ag. For an appropriate thickness of the iron film we measured a value of Kerr reflection, 4 times greater than that of opaque material coated with one dereflection layer of ZnS. This comparitively simple structure showed nearly the same results as the structure of 13 layers proposed by Keay and Lissberger. Replacing the ZnS layer by a perfect dielectric matching stack, the Kerr reflection could theoretically be additionally increased four times, thus obtaining the results otherwise given by a 22-layer structure."
"Direct observations using the Bitter technique of domain-wall dynamics in 1000-Å-thick Ni-Fe-Co cylindrical films are reported. It is found that the bit which forms under the word strap is defined by labyrinth domains if unipolar write cycles are used. The Waaben write cycle, in which a unipolar cycle is followed by a reverse easy direction pulse φ2, tends to form bits defined by simple circumferential ring walls. The results of unipolar pulse mobility measurements are in good agreement with previous data on flat films. However, the results of bipolar pulse mobility measurements show that the wall translation distance is anomalously low when bipolar pulses are applied. By adjusting the amplitude and length of φ2in the Waaben write cycle, it is shown that wall motion can be eliminated for hxabove and below hw, the wall motion coercive force. The effectiveness of φ2forh_{x} < h_{w}is consistent with those models for creep in which local variations in hwplay a major role."
"Mass memory has three distinct uses in a computer system. Each places distinct requirements on the technology. This paper gives a personal estimate of the requirements for each use in the next five years. 1) A mass memory may be used as a cheaper extension of main memory. For this use, cycle time must be\\leq 10 \\mus, capacity 1-8 million bytes, addressed to the word, read-write, and cost per bit must be less than 1/4 that of main memory. 2) A mass memory may be used for residence of the control program and compilers. For this use, cycle time must be\\leq 10 \\mus, block transfer rate ≥ 1 million byte/s, capacity 8-32 million bytes. It may be read-only (if easily changeable) and addressed only in blocks. Cost per bit must be less than 1/10 that of main memory. 3) A mass memory may be used for storage of an on-line data base. Such a memory must have >500 million bytes capacity, a cycle time <100 ms, may be block addressed, may be read-only for some uses but not most. Cost must be <0.004 cent/bit to compete with today's technologies. Special memory properties, such as content-addressing, distributed logic, etc., will not redeem a memory that is not competitive on cycle time, capacity, block transfer rate, and cost."
"If a thin ferromagnetic film is exposed to an external field which is lower than the coercivity for fast reversal, the walls may move slowly by the aid of thermal activation. This phenomenon is investigated in a wide temperature range (20 to 300°K for quantitative measurements, 3 to 300°K for qualitative observations). The results lead to a modification of the existing theory. Especially in the low-temperature range the wall motion caused by the internal fluctuation field is more effective than predicted by theory. At low temperatures the mobility of the walls under a constant field becomes surprisingly high. This leads to an enhanced sensitivity concerning creeping effects and should therefore be considered in the design of low-temperature computer devices. Explanations of this effect are discussed."
"Bits of information, represented by cylindrical magnetic domains in a thin platelet of orthoferrite magnetized normal to the platelet, can be propagated by applying a rotating uniform transverse magnetic field to magnetize a structured soft magnetic overlay placed in the same plane as the orthoferrite. Typically, the orthoferrite platelets are 2 mils thick and the domains are 1 to 2 mils in diameter. The structured overlay can be an etched pattern of 1- by 5-mil 5000-Å-thick evaporated Permalloy rectangles, requiring transverse fields on the order of 10 Oe. A bit packing density between 104and 105bits/in2can be achieved using 1-mil domains and a bit rate of 1 MHz is believed possible. Because of the structural simplicity of devices using propagating cylindrical domains driven by uniform fields, they are economically attractive. Another feature is that logic can be performed within the device by utilizing the interaction between domains."
"The behavior of stable cylindrical domains, under variations in temperature, has been studied in a number of the rare-earth orthoferrites from the point of view of the need for temperature control when these materials are used in propagating domain devices. Fractional changes in domain diameter from -0.60 percent/°K in YFeO3to -2.71 percent/°K in a mixed orthoferrite, Sm0.55Tb0.45FeO3have been observed at 300°K. The mixed orthoferrites in which the region of reorientation of the magnetization is near room temperature provide domain diameters of 25 μm or less, making possible a high bit density. However, rapidly varying wall energy in this region leads to a substantial temperature dependence of domain size. In the YFeO3, the wall energy is almost constant from 77 to 350°K."
"Recently developed programmable instrumentation allows computer methods to be applied in solving core memory test programs. Digital computers improve the quantitative and qualitative analysis of core data by automatically controlling pulse currents and acquiring actual data from direct reading sample-and-hold or peak-and-hold discriminators. Measurement and analysis techniques which were previously impractical using manual methods may now be employed."
"We argue that the answer to the above question is: on the boundary of the volume in which the field is to be known. We assume that in this volume the field is divergence- and rotational-free, that the measurements have an error which is random and uncorrelated, and that only these errors limit the accurate description of the field. In a practical case it is shown that observations inside the volume can indeed be predicted accurately from measurements on the boundary. The time and effort involved in the measurement can thus be substantially reduced."
"Direct influence of electromagnetic radiation on magnetic properties has been detected at low temperatures (T < 150°K) in Si-doped YIG (Y3Fe5-xSixO12) and in Ga-doped CdCr2Se4(Cd1-yGayCr2Se4. Its manifestations are 1) a change in crystalline anisotropy observed in ferromagnetic resonance and torque measurements at high dopes (0.1 < x < 0.3) and 2) a reduction in initial permeability and an increase in coercive forceoccurring for low dopes (x < 0.05, y = 0.015). These changes are produced by irradiation with light of wavelength <1.3 μm. The effects depend upon the product of light intensity and irradiation time, and are attributed to light-induced electron transfer resulting in a redistribution of Fe2+(or Cr2+) ions. At low temperature the redistribution and its manifestations are permanent; at higher temperature there is a competition with thermal electron motion. Quantitative results of a simple 2-center model are shown to agree well with experiment. Potential applications are in the field of information storage."
"A method is reported whereby the useful 1 output of a ferrite core, operated in the NDRO mode based on differential permeability sensing [1], can be increased considerably. The method is particularly suitable for use in program-store applications and in fast word-organized memories. To write, first a clear pulse, then a demagnetizing pulse is applied which is followed by a second demagnetizing pulse of opposite polarity and of short duration. This pulse sequence causes the 1 output to be larger than the largest value that could be achieved by the use of only a single demagnetizing pulse. The second demagnetizing pulse is not related in amplitude to subsequent disturb pulses and, therefore, its amplitude does not have an upper threshold. It is possible to operate in a bit write mode where, having cleared all cores on a givenXline into the 0 state, 1's may be written into any of these cores, one by one or in groups of any number. This mode of operation is attractive for a program store where, while NDRO is necessary, longer write times are acceptable. A worse case output ratio of about 2 to 1 could be achieved on cores that without the application of the second demagnetizing pulse could provide an output ratio of only 1.6 to 1."
"New square-loop ferrite toroids were developed especially for NDRO memories with permeability sensing. They are 20-mil cores (outer diameter) with a coercive current of 80 mA. The information 0 is written by a short but high set pulse of uncritical amplitude (about 1000 mA). To write the information 1 in a selected address, the concerning core must be demagnetized in a coincident current mode. Applying a read pulse with an amplitude of 50 mA and a rise time of 5 ns results in a peak voltage for a single core of about 2.5 mV in the 0 state and about 7 mV in the 1 state. In a plane a two-core-per-bit system will be used so that bipolar sense signals appear."
"Nixie tubes and CRT display elements are useful as a numerical indicator, but these require a large volume and comparatively high voltage source. Magnetooptical display elements provide a flat panel display with memory and are quite adaptable to batch-fabrication techniques. This paper describes the numerical display elements for the solid-state panel display, utilizing magnetic thin films. The display elements are composed of the magnetic thin-film, insulator, and conductor layers, and these layers are evaporated onto a glass substrate. A numerical display pattern is determined by the state of magnetization of the channel pieces, that is, local switching in the film, which can be accomplished by the drive pulse fields. The local switching is controllable by pulse current flowing through the selected drive lines. The local switching pattern in the film can be observed as a dark-on-bright pattern by the Kerr magneto-optic effect. The pattern, written by the drive currents, is memorized until subsequent alteration is performed. The drive current is a 1-μs 300-mA pulse and the bias field applied along the easy axis is 2.5 Oe. The contrast ratio obtained is 1:3. The size of numerical display pattern is 1 × 3.6 mm, and substrate is 10 × 10 mm no. 3 Corning glass."
"Phase shift in a 16-bit 3200 flux-change-per-inch (fci) coded pattern was studied. The pattern was written on thick particulate γ-Fe2O3tapes, and statistical data were accumulated with a measurement accuracy of about one tenth of one percent. All tapes were unoriented, with remanent moments ranging from 5 to 70 EMU/cm3, coercivities between 200 and 360 Oe, and coating thicknesses between 160 and 700 μin. The position of a peak in time (its phase information) affects recording resolution. To date, most definitions of recording resolution have concerned the properties of isolated pulses such as the half pulsewidth. It is clear that the isolated pulsewidth conveys no information on the timing of the pulse. Resolution, in the context of isolated pulses, is expected to increase as the ratioH_{c}/I_{r}increases. Our results show that phase shift is not minimized, in general, for the medium with maximumH_{c}/I_{r}. In addition, asymmetric phase shifts in a coded pattern were observed, and these cannot be explained by time-independent linear superposition of fundamental pulses. It is suggested that such phase shift studies are a necessary addition to isolated pulsewidth studies if recording resolution and reliability are to be better understood."
"The cross-wire probe can be used for measuring static magnetic properties in small regions of thin magnetic memory films. This paper gives analytical solutions for the cross-wire probe outputs. The theoretical analysis is based on the ideal rotational switching model for flat films. Results are in excellent agreement with the experimental waveforms obtained in measurements ofH_{c}, H_{k}, and skew."
"In order to prepare reproducibly high permeability manganese-zinc ferrites, it is necessary to carefully control the sintering schedule for obtaining both a homogeneous chemical composition and the desired microstructure. The latter should consist of big pore-free crystals, the remaining porosity being a few number of big pores situated at the grain boundaries. In our theoretical analysis of the densification, a volume diffusion model is used taking into account the geometrical parameters of the average crystal in thermodynamical equilibrium in the polycrystalline material. In the intermediate stage of sintering, the grain growth and densification are correlated, the densification rate being approximately inversely proportional to the grain volume. Sintering experiments have been carried out under various conditions of temperature and duration, the atmosphere composition being adjusted for maintaining the same stoichiometry. These results permit one to define isoporosity curves. It is then possible to compute the activation energiesQand Q1responsible for grain growth and for densification. The values found areQ = 82 \\pm 5kcal/mole andQ_{1} = 85 \\pm 5kcal/mole, in agreement with the previous measurements of Paulus [5] and Ogawa [3]. The experimental results show that both processes are controlled by the diffusion energy of oxygen anions which are the slowest diffusing species. The variation of the porosity versus time follows a(t)^{-n}law,nbeing roughly equal to 0.5 in good agreement with our predicted model. The experimental results also confirm that the use of a more oxidizing atmosphere increases the grain growth rate but decreases the densification rate. A sintering schedule leading to very high permeability ferrites is determined taking into account these results. The microstructure is obtained during a first soak at high temperature under oxidizing atmosphere. This leads to big crystals and open porosity while preventing zinc losses. This first treatment is followed by a second soak under a more reducing atmosphere leading to a high density ferrite and an homogeneous chemical composition possessing a ferrous iron content so as to obtain a maximum permeability at room temperature."
"The various stages for the manufacture of manganese-zinc ferrite have been studied using the most powerful available techniques of physicochemical analysis. The selection of the starting oxides has been achieved by studying their reactivity; the formation mechanism of the ferrite was first determined by X-ray diffractometry and Mössbauer spectrometry. For iron oxide the index of reactivity is correlated with the temperature of the spinel phase appearance, while for manganese oxide the rate of dissolution in zinc ferrite may be used. The electrical properties of the finished material depend very closely on the level of homogeneity reached during the various manufacturing steps of the process and, in particular, during the mixing of the starting oxides. In order to measure the homogeneity of the mixed oxides, the local concentration of the various elements are determined using an electron-probe microanalyser. The efficiency of mixing is then measured by the ratio of the calculated theoretical standard deviation to the experimental standard deviation of composition. Various methods of mixing have been compared, and an optimum mixing duration can be defined leading to improved magnetic properties of the finished product. X-ray spectrometry, electron-probe microanalysis, and Mössbauer spectrometry have been proved very fruitful for the understanding of the sintering phenomena. The magnetic structure of the sublattices as well as the inversion degree of the ferrite were determined by neutron diffraction experiments which gave quantitative results on the stoichiometry. By using modern methods for optimum seeking, the various parameters defining the sintering schedule can be adjusted to maximize the μQ quality factor of low losses ferrites."
"By using a condenser bank of the capacity 9000 μF and the working voltage 3.3 kV, magnetic fields higher than 400 kOe have been produced in a pulse form, the duration of which is about 1 ms. In order to avoid the mechanical breakdown of the coil, various types of coils including a toroidal transformer-type device have been constructed. Using these fields, various experiments have been performed. Magnetization parallel to thecaxis (hard axis) of the Tb single crystal in the magnetic fields of 200 to 620 kOe at 77°K caused an appreciable lattice elongation parallel to thecaxis, which resulted in an appearance of the local anisotropy with its hard axis perpendicular to thecaxis. Measurements of the magnetoresistance effect of dilute alloys and the high field susceptibility of ferromagnets are also described."
"Local magnetic fields emanating from recording tapes and heads have been measured by observing their effect on the beam of a scanning electron microscope. Theoretical calculations indicate that tape fields recorded at densities up to 25 000 flux reversals/inch should be observable. A variation on the basic technique, using the astigmatic aberration of the electron beam, can be used to measure field gradients directly."
"Static magnetic frequency changers gained wide industrial application during the last 15 years. The rating of individual units increased from 50-kW active power output to 3000 kW, and larger units are contemplated. This paper deals with problems that are of primary importance for larger units only. The design procedures improved during the last years due to increased knowledge of the aftersaturation reactance of core-coil assemblies and due to new information available for core losses at high and distorted flux densities. The stability limits of filtered frequency changers are discussed and some new applications are mentioned."
"Plated-wire memories can be operated in three-dimensional mode, which reduces the cost of memories in their application to a digital computer. The switching characteristics of a plated wire are measured for a three-dimensional operation and a new driving technique suitable for the operation is given. The plated wire consists of a 0.13-mm phosphor-bronze wire and three layers of ferromagnetic material electroplated thereupon. A memory plane for three-dimensional operation is fabricated simply by inserting plated wires into a plastic holder with etched circuits on the outsides. Etched circuits are drive line, digit line, and sense line. In order to cancel a half-select noise, one bit position consists of two memory elements. The switching speed of the element is about 150 ns, and the output voltage is about 1 mV."
"The main types of noise in ferromagnetic materials are thermal or Nyquist noise, excess noise, and Barkhausen noise. They differ in magnitude as well as in the frequency dependence of their associated power spectra. The comparatively weak Nyquist noise is generated by the thermal energy of the conduction electrons and spin waves acting on the domain configuration in the ferromagnetic materials. Excess noise occurs during temperature changes of the sample. It is generated by magnetization processes caused by a changing mechanical strain inside the sample. Strongest by far can be the Barkhausen noise. This is due to a pronounced tendency to form clusters of Barkhausen jumps. The temporal and spatial behavior of such clusters can be well described as a diffusion process; a simple model of this process is given."
"Several sources of deterministic read noise in cryo-electric memories are discussed. Write noise and random thermal noise are not included. Noise on a single plane is first considered. Inductively coupled in-mode noise can be minimized by crossing lines at right angles and maintaining maximum distance between parallel segments of drive and sense lines. Capacitively coupled in-mode noise can be minimized by go-and-return layout. Common-mode noise is analyzed with the aid of a useful model. In-mode noise and common-mode to in-mode conversion for stacks of memory planes in simple system organizations are considered next. Reduction of these noise factors is achieved by the use of go-and-return connections of drive and sense lines between planes. Proper system operation requires a minimization of all deterministic noise components discussed."
"Measurements of the magnetocrystalline anisotropy have been made in Ba2Zn2Fe28O46and Ba2Co2Fe28O46, two materials of theXphase of hexagonal ferrites. The measurements were made by ferromagnetic resonance techniques at room temperature. The anisotropy of Zn2X was also measured by a static technique. These materials have rhombehedral symmetry, and thus are similar to theYphase. The lowest terms in the anisotropy energy consistent with this symmetry areE_{A} = K_{1} \\sin^{2}\\theta + K_{2} \\sin^{4}\\theta + K_{2}' \\sin^{3}\\theta\\cos\\theta\\cos 3\\phi. Zn2X shows uniaxial anisotropy, withK_{1} = +2.57 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3, K2andK_{2}'zero. The static measurement yieldedK_{1} = 2.50 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3. In Co2XK_{1} = -2.6 \\times 10^{5}erg/cm3,K_{2} = +3.8 \\times 10^{5}erg/cm3,K_{2}' = 1.2 \\times 10^{5}erg/cm3so the unique axis becomes a hard direction. Comparison of the measured change in anisotropy on substitution of cobalt for zinc with the theory of Slonczewski shows that to second order the theory predicts just the three terms shown, and gives numerical values larger by a factor of two than the measured values. Linewidths are also reported."
"Using the Wiener autocorrelation theorem, the noise power spectrum of the pole strength in a thin lamina of an erased tape is shown to be approximately white. The noise power spectrum of the reproduce head voltage is calculated for a thick tape and compared with the signal power. The wide-band signal-to-noise ratio of a tape recorder equalized flat is deduced and expressed in very simple forms, which are inversely dependent upon the square of a bandwidth. Notably, in this special case the wide-band result is independent of reproduce head-to-tape spacing. Numerical examples demonstrate that this simple theory yields results in excellent agreement with practice."
"Changes in shape of the hysteresis loops of magnetic materials with compressive stress applied parallel to the magnetic field have been studied both theoretically and experimentally. From a model of a single independent grain, the results of theory suggest that for materials with negative anisotropy, the λ100magnetostriction constant controls the effects on both the remanence ratio and anisotropy field. When the anisotropy is positive, the λ111constant is predominant. For a single-crystal specimen of Y3Fe5O12, quantitative agreement with the theory was obtained from measurements carried out on a hysteresigraph. Polycrystalline samples of Y3Fe5O12, Y1.4Ca1.6V0.8In0.5Fe3.7O12, and Y3Mn0.1- Fe4.9O12were examined in a more qualitative manner and these results were also in accord with theory."
"It is shown that threshold functions of many variables can be realized by writing these variables into a multiaperture core and then reading them out synchronously. The multiaperture core is a closed series magnetic circuit of elementary, e.g., toroidal, cores each of which serves to store one binary variable. During the read operation identical EMF pulses are induced in all one-turn figure-eight output windings. Their polarity depends on the value of the input variable. The threshold function is realized by summing the EMF induced in all the output windings whose number of turns are proportional to the weights of the corresponding variables. On one core it is possible to obtain simultaneously various threshold functions of the input variables. It is possible to expand the logical possibilities of the threshold element by executing some elementary logical functions of two or three variables at the input."
"In many navigation and communication systems it is required to generate high-power RF pulses at a relatively low duty cycle. In conventional systems the active devices (tubes, transistors) that generate these pulses must handle the peak RF power. In this paper a new method of generating RF pulses is described in which the active devices need handle only the average power. The key element in this new method is a magnetic coupling network that consists of a balanced interconnection of four nonlinear inductors. This coupling network is termed the variable mutual coupling network (VMCN). High-power RF pulses are generated by ac charging of a high-Qcircuit called the RF storage tank. This storage tank is coupled to the load by means of the VMCN. During charging the VMCN is balanced such that no mutual coupling exists between the storage tank and the load. When the storage tank is fully charged, control currents are applied to the VMCN causing an unbalance to occur because of the non-linearB-Hcharacteristics of the inductors, and thereby introducing a mutual coupling between the storage tank and the load. The energy in the storage tank is thus transferred to the load in the form of an RF pulse."
"Saturable reactors are used widely to obtain an inductance dependent on the dc current in the control winding. These saturable reactors generate harmonics that may cause undesired harmonic resonances. This paper develops an inductor arrangement that generates negligible harmonics and the inductance varies almost linearly with dc voltage. The arrangement basically consists of a binary arrangement of inductors and a vernier inductor. The vernier inductor is used to provide smooth transition between discrete switching of the binary inductors. A control scheme using analogue and digital techniques is developed to monitor the firing of the thyristors for the switching arrangement. The system is analyzed and the experimental results are compared with the theoretical results. The system developed has maximum utilization of the thyristors and the maximum inductive kVA that can be controlled is limited by maximum available ratings of the thyristors."
"For attitude stabilization of earth satellites, frequently, magnetic systems are used. A main part of such systems are magnetic torquers that, together with the geomagnetic field, produce moments to control the attitude or angular velocity of the satellite. Magnetic torquers consist of permanent magnets or of coils. The coils may be air cored or iron cored. A compromise between permanent magnets and coils is given by chargeable magnets (semi-permanent magnets), i.e., coils with a core consisting of a material with high remanence and medium coercive force. To damp angular oscillations and to remove spin rates, permeable rods are used which undergo magnetization changes in the geomagnetic field, thus transforming the kinetic energy of the satellite into hysteresis and eddy-current losses. Other damping devices consist of a secondary mass dissipating energy by moving relative to the satellite. Extensive testing is necessary to assure proper functioning and reliability of the devices described."
"A magnetic frequency tripler is a nonlinear device that is used to produce third-harmonic frequency output from a three-phase fundamental frequency source. Previous analyses of triplers assumed that the undesired harmonic currents generated by the magnetic cores could be returned to the input lines. In order to improve the performance of a frequency tripler, input-line filters are required. The presence of line filters influences profoundly the behavior of the device since harmonic voltage components other than the fundamental are allowed to exist at the frequency tripler terminals. In this paper a method is presented to analyze a line-filtered magnetic frequency tripler, and to investigate its stability."
"The magnetization within micrometer-size spots on Mn-Bi films was Curie-point switched with a laser in static applied magnetic fields. Such switching was found to be a continuous rather than a binary process, in that the average magnetization within a spot could be switched to any value between+I_{s}and-I_{s}by varying the applied field. The dependence of the magnetization after switching on field was measured quantitatively via the magnetooptic effect. Switched spots were examined under oil-immersion optics to reveal the magnetization distribution responsible for this dependence."
"Two methods of measuring the permittivity and the dielectric losses at microwaves are described. With the first method, which uses a circular E010resonator, a sensitivity\\epsilon_{\\min}\" \\approx 3 \\times 10^{-4}could be obtained. The accuracy is rather low (≈ 5 percent). The second method uses a high-qualityH_{01n}resonator which resonates at the same frequency in theH_{01(n+1)}mode if a sample of the proper dimensions is introduced. This method has a sensitivity\\epsilon_{min}\" \\approx (1-3) \\times 10^{-6}and an accuracy < 1 percent. With both methods, measurements can be carried out in a large temperature range. Data on several ferrites and dielectrics show a large increase of ε\" with temperature in the range 0-200°C."
"New developments for ferrite substrates applicable to hybrid microstrip microwave circuits are described. In order to make ferrite elements an integral part of microwave systems a technique of integrated magnetic zones is presented. This technique is based on the application of \"nonmagnetic\" ferrites, i.e., substituted ferrites with a Curie temperature much below room temperature. Such nonmagnetic ferrite substrates will be compared with alumina substrates. The application of the new substrate technology in microwave integrated systems will be discussed."
"New alloys for earth-leak transformers, pulse transformers, thyristor protecting chokes, and improved magnetic amplifiers are presented. It will be shown that fundamental developments in the range of materials are closely connected with the rise of new applications. The developments of materials concern Ni-Fe alloys with high initial and maximum permeability, with flat hysteresis loops and a low remanence, and with a rectangular loop. The physical background resulting in such loops will be explained and examples will be given for special dynamic characteristics."
"A detailed examination of the characteristic impedance, propagation velocity, dispersion, and losses in a large hybrid-organization cryoelectric memory system is presented. A frequency-domain analysis of the lines in such a system reveals that they behave as band-limited transmission lines having essentially real characteristic impedance and propagation velocity, and therefore negligible dispersion. For the pulse waveforms of interest, the periodic capacitive and inductive loading effects in the multiconductor configuration reduce to effective distributed inductances and capacitances equal to the low-frequency equivalent values. The periodic loading structure dictates only the small-scale details of pulse rise time on the lines. Calculated and experimental results of time-domain analysis support these findings. The only limit to the number of bits driven or sensed along a single line is the desired cycle time; the transmission line network will impose no further electronic limitations on system performance for capacities up to about 108bits."
"In data processing systems there is a growing demand for cheap and large random access stores with high transfer rates. An extended store having a minimum module capacity of 10 Mbit with an access time of about 1 μs and a cycle time of 6 μs is presented. The store is equipped with a magnetic word selection system which is manufactured in the same steps as the storage matrix. This reduces the number of interconnections and drive circuits to such an extent that this number is even lower than in 2½D core stores. Also, on the digit and sense line the number of interconnections and the number of circuits is low because of the high tolerable number of bits per line. Due to these features and the simple production process, a low cost and high reliability are anticipated. The stack of 107bits inclusive of the magnetic selection has a content as low as 6 dm3and can be operated with currents of about 250 mA."
"Aging effects induced by magnetic annealing of plated wires were studied by measurement of skew. The annealing was done in a magnetic field parallel to the hard axis, which rotated the film magnetization to approximately 45°. The data are described by one fixed and two annealable components of anisotropy. Based on data obtained between 100 and 200°C an aging curve was constructed for 50°C which shows that as a conservative worst case the plated wire will have 31 mOe (\\approx 0.4\\deg) of skew after 10 years. End-of-life derating design procedures can accommodate this amount of skew. Generally good agreement with theoretical relationships was observed."
"Some results concerning the domain structure under the influence of temperature for Co single crystals, using Bitter's patterns method, are given. Working at a temperature range of 298-773°K, some modifications in accordance with the theory for Co and Fe-Si single crystals have been observed. These data are at partial variance with the experimental results obtained by other authors."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Cr-Co evaporated films were written upon and read with a vibrating head apparatus. The effects of the head-to-medium spacing upon the half-pulsewidth were carefully measured between 0 and 4 μm. The formulaP_{50} = [g^{2} + 4(d + a)^{2}]^{1/2}was found to hold quite well. However, the conservation of P50after the heating of a recording and the consequent increase oftB_{r}/H_{c}raise questions about the effect of the self-demagnetization outside the head, usually assumed as dominant."
"A new magnetic transducer has been developed for use in the measurement of mechanical displacement. Experiments suggest that the transducer could be used for various purposes: for instance, readout information from magnetic drums or disks of computers, nondestructive readout from thin-film memories, magnetic pattern recognition, and an unconventional flux sensor. The transducer is composed of flux-sensitive magnetic heads which are fabricated from a sheet of ferromagnetic thin film by photoetching process. By using the etching process, a large number of heads are produced simultaneously, and the heads are operated in a group. The characteristics, performances, and an application of grouped magnetic heads are described in this paper."
"The access and cycle time limits and storage capacity limits of a DRO memory with planar magnetic films are estimated. Basing on these estimates, the concept of a magnetic-film memory of high-storage density is developed which operates on low-drive currents and allows high operating speeds. The magnetic films, the storage element structure, and the drive lines required for realizing the memory plane are treated. Data of a realized feasibility model, which deviate from conventional values (word line period 200 μm, digit line period 300 μm, nominal word current 120 mA, nominal digit current 32 mA, delay times on the lines of the plane 3 ns for a storage capacity of 1024 words of 144 bits each) are explained. The memory electronics and the status of development are reviewed."
"The conditions under which linear superposition (LSP) of isolated pulses is valid for the synthesis of multibit waveforms are examined theoretically. LSP is found to be valid subject to three conditions; first, that all the processes following the write process be linear operations on the tape magnetization; second, that the write field rise time be less than the bit interval; and third, that each change in magnetization, occurring during the write process, be a function only of the field causing that change. Additionally, the validity of LSP at 15 000 bit/in is demonstrated for a high resolution tape recorder using standard γ-Fe2O3tape."
"Polycrystalline and epitaxial magnetic oxide films have been fabricated by several investigators. This paper deals predominantly with epitaxial films grown by chemical vapor deposition. The majority of the discussion is concerned with substrates, the deposition process, and film characterization. Where possible, comparisons are made with bulk crystals and with films produced by other fabrication techniques."
"The partial-switching two-core-per-bit mode of operation offers significant speed advantages for ferrite core memories. A number of problems must be solved in designing such a memory; some of these problems are directly related to the use of ferrite cores in the partial-switching mode, others are more or less common to many kinds of high-speed memories. The first kind of problems includes the behavior of the core pair as a function of thermal and information history and the design parameters for the core. The second kind concerns the economic optimization constrained by the technological possibilities. Both kinds of design problems are treated in this paper and it is concluded that memories of 0.1 to 1 million bits using the partial-switching two-core-per-bit mode with cycle times of 200-300 ns are economically and technologically feasible."
"The field of magnetooptics is reviewed and the application of a magnetic memory system as a readout technique is discussed. A review and comparison of the fundamental magneto-optic effects and their utility in a system is presented. It is shown for a longitudinal Kerr readout system that laser and shot noise limit wide-band (1 MHz) signal-to-noise ratios to about 40 dB. Media noise problems are reviewed. The limitations to packing density are discussed, and it is concluded that packing densities greater than 107bit/in2(including suitable guardbands) are practical. The various techniques for optico-thermal recording are surveyed. A discussion of related hardware components (such as optical modulators and lasers) is presented. It is concluded that a viable magnetooptic detection-laser beam memory system is practical. No suitable nonmechanical scanning system has yet been developed."
"The main uses of permanent magnets are covered either by the range of cast and magnetically treated alnico alloys or by the several grades of sintered barium/strontium hexaferrite, but minority materials have their special applications and continue to develop. Three different technical classes of permanent magnet applications can be distinguished. Firstly, magnets working in a magnetic circuit of static reluctance, e.g., speakers, moving-coil measuring instruments, microwave devices, separators, etc. Secondly, those working in a varying self-demagnetizing field due to change of circuit reluctance, such as clamping and holding magnets which range from planning-board indicators to large chucks for machine-tools. Thirdly, magnets which work in both a self-demagnetizing field and a varying externally produced field, as in motors, generators, the several types of magnetic couplings, and magnetic suspensions. For each of these three classes the basic design principles are indicated and typical applications are described. Additionally, there are uses for high-hysteresis permanent magnet materials without premagnetization, as in hysteresis motors."
"A review of the methods of preparation and the relevant properties of materials which the authors consider suitable for incorporation in conventional magnetic recording surfaces such as tapes, disks, drums, strips, and cards is provided. This field is presently dominated by one material, gamma ferric oxide in fine particle form, and so it is not surprising that this material is discussed at greater length than its potential rivals. The reasons for this dominance are considered and found to be 1) the ability of gamma ferric oxide recording surfaces to perform adequately in the recording systems which have been developed so far, i.e., the magnetic properties of the oxide have apparently not been the limiting factors in the performance of recording systems; 2) the relative cheapness of the particles; 3) the existence of suitable binder systems of proven durability; and 4) the need for compatibility with existing recording devices."
"IBM's manufacture of arrays is reviewed in the context of advances in manufacturing techniques that have been made over the past ten years. Early methods of winding core planes and array jumpering are discussed briefly, and the present status is viewed in more detail."
"A comprehensive review of the history and present status of ferrite memory materials is presented. The range of topics treated extends from the physical theories dealing with the origin of hysteresis loop squareness and the mechanism of flux switching to the technology of manufacturing memory cores. Themes that underlie the engineering, physics, and chemistry of memory cores are emphasized, particularly in respect to the material requirements for coincident current application. The limitations of memory cores and future prospects for this technology are discussed. Wherever possible an endeavor is made to syncretize, although in a critical and selective way, the sometimes conflicting theories and interpretations of experimental data."
"Thin-film deposition techniques as applied to magnetic memory applications are reviewed. The relationship between the microstructure of the film and the fabrication technique and pertinent parameters is discussed in terms of the atomistics of film nucleation and growth. The dependence of the magnetic properties governing switching of a magnetic storage element is qualitatively discussed in terms of the microstructure and ripple theory; literature data is used to elucidate this by showing the effects of composition, temperature, thickness, and substrate morphology on the magnetic properties. The literature values for the anisotropy field, coercivity field, and dispersion of various classes of ternary alloys is reviewed, extending previous papers reviewing elemental and binary alloys."
"The physics and applications of the Josephson effect are reviewed in detail. A brief introduction to superconductivity and tunneling is provided. The configuration most fully discussed is the oxide junction. However, properties of bridges, point-contacts, and solder-blobs are also described. Among the applications reviewed are magnetometers, infrared detectors, microwave generators and mixers, voltmeters, computer logic and memory devices, relaxation oscillators, thermometers, and spectrometers."
"Electrodeposited cylindrical magnetic film memory technology is reviewed. Extensive references are made to previous work. New data is given in areas not previously reported. Special emphasis is given to the following items: 1) Applications: Plated-wire applications cover the spectrum from 100 to 1000 ns cycle time NDRO memories of 105to 107bits capacity in commercial and military markets. 2) Processing: Substrate preparation and electrochemical processing, as well as alternative magnetic plating solutions, and the control of pH, temperature, flow rate, Ni-Fe ratio, and other variables necessary for high yield plating are reviewed. 3) Aging: The conditions that stabilize the film and the test methods that predict a 10- to 100-year life are reviewed. 4) Testing: A practical approach to continuous production line testing is reviewed. 5) Bit Packing Density: Calculations on magnetization distribution along the wire are compared to experience. Although memory plane geometry is important, the wire characteristics dominate the achievable bit density. Wire diameter, film thickness Hk, and other factors are included in graphs useful for design purposes. 6) Memory Plane Construction: The relative advantages of several different forms are compared. The need for magnetic keepers and their advantages are reviewed. 7) Interactions: New data is presented on some of the effects of variations in word strap alignment and spacing as well as the sensitivity to variation in plated-wire spacing and bending."
"Several brief case histories are recounted, to show how basic scientific discoveries of new materials and phenomena are used as necessary background for the design of modern devices. The essential elements in the follow-through from the discoveries to the useful devices are listed for six subjects used as examples: 1) rare earths for permanent magnets, 2) orthoferrite domain \"bubbles\" for memory, 3) Faraday rotation of polarized microwave radiation, 4) magnetic properties of grain-oriented silicon steel, 5) optical properties of magnetic materials, and 6) superconducting magnets."
"The potential of a new technology, based on the superconducting Josephson tunneling effect, has been assessed for use in high-speed computer systems. Josephson tunneling circuits for memory and logic functions can be switched at sub-nanosecond delay, do not require standby power, and dissipate extremely low energy, typically less than 10-13joule during fast switching operation. High-speed circuits with high packing densities, not limited by power dissipation problems, can therefore be expected. Low thermal noise at cryogenic temperatures ensures reliable operation despite the low energy switching signal. Practically lossless signal transmission via superconducting lines can be exploited for high-speed operation even when sizeable memory and logic modules are assembled. Two random access memory modules have been designed on the basis of single device experiments. Operational characteristics leading to the conclusion that 30 Mbit capacity, less than 1 watt refrigeration requirement (at 3.6° K) and cycle times of 40 ns (in one case) and 15 ns (in the second case), can be achieved are presented."
"The possibility of exerting a torque with a nonzero time average value as a result of interaction of a plane electro-magnetic wave with anisotropic magnetic medium is discussed. The torque per unit volume produced by the action of the magnetic field on the magnetization of the medium isT = M \\times Hand it arises from the fact that the vector of magnetizationMis in general not parallel to the magnetic field intensityH. Three cases of magnetic media are distinguished: 1) medium with a natural or static anisotropy, 2) gyrotropic medium, 3) medium with shape anisotropy. In the first case, the lossless medium having a permeability\\mu x, \\mu yin thexandydirections perpendicular to the direction of electromagnetic plane wave propagation, the maximum of the torque per unit area corresponds to the thickness of the section\\Delta z = \\lambda_{0}/2(nx - ny), wherenx,nyare the refraction constants of the medium, and the sign of torque is opposite in the neighboring sections. In the case of a gyrotropic medium characterized by Polder's permeability tensor, it can be shown that the average value of torque exerted on a lossless medium by a plane wave propagating in the direction of dc magnetic field is zero. The nonzero average value of torque exists in the case of gyrotropic medium with losses as in the third case when a plane linearly polarized wave propagates along a ferrite cylinder with elliptical cross section. The results of not yet finished experimental investigations, which had to confirm the possibility of utilization of the torque for the construction of a feed-through wattmeter for the measurement of microwave power in theXband, are shown at the end of the paper."
"When subject to a nonuniform transverse field, a thin magnetic film may exhibit an effective anisotropy field of several times Hk. It is shown that both using a keeper film and making the elements narrow in their easy-axis direction lowers the demagnetizing fields. A method is explained to compute the magnetization distribution with or without keeper for film elements of finite width. Numerical results for typical memory elements are given."
"The magnetoelectric effect has been used to observe the domain state of antiferromagnetic chromium oxide single crystals during domain reversal. Switching times have been accurately measured as a function of applied fields for two samples, one highly strained, one relatively strain free. The temperature dependence of the domain switching threshold fields has been measured for temperatures close to the Néel point, and a simple model is presented to explain the results obtained."
"Polycrystalline thick Mg-Mn ferrite and ferrochromite films were deposited on polycrystalline ceramic substrates and on platinum by using chemical transport in close-spaced configuration. The deposition process was mostly diffusion controlled. Epitaxial growth of ferrite on platinum and sapphire crystals was observed. Films in the 100 to 1000-μm thickness range were continuous only in the case of relatively small substrate-ferrite thermal expansion mismatch. Suitable substrate materials were forsterite and platinum. Ferrite grain size increased with film thickness. Thick deposits were coarse-grained and had rough surfaces requiring grinding. Magnetic and electric film properties atXband, including reciprocal phase shift, were similar to those of bulk materials, with differences resulting from coarse-grain structure and from substrate effect. Promise for anX-band microstrip phase shifter appeared."
"Domain configurations in laminated magnetic film elements comprising two equal thickness layers of Permalloy separated by silicon monoxide are described. Individual layer thicknesses were in the range 15 to 200 nm. Elements with NiFe layers less than 100 nm thick show line domains and a locked domain structure on easy-axis field switching. These effects are attributed to magnetostatic effects between the laminations, as is the extended range of film thicknesses exhibiting Néel-type walls. In the range 90- to 200-nm NiFe thickness, anomalous domain propagation takes place, possibly the result of ordered growth of the upper magnetic layer."
"The recent advent of computer time-sharing systems with teletypewriter input and output has made rapid interaction between the computer and its users practical, thereby providing a way to overcome many of the disadvantages previously encountered in attempts to automate the design of power transformers through the use of batch-processed programs (card deck input). A time-sharing program has been developed specifically to utilize the engineering judgement and experience of the designer in making certain design decisions that are not easily programable, while relieving him of the tedious and time consuming computation required for hand calculated designs. The time needed to compete the calculations for a typical transformer design has been reduced to about one hour, compared to from one to several days by hand calculations or batch-processed computer programs. The organization and capabilities of the program are described, and examples of its use are indicated."
"Coupling effects between ferromagnetic films of EuO and Fe in direct contact were studied in the temperature range 6 to 300°K by magnetooptic means. Thin Fe film (435 Å) was vacuum evaporated onto heated glass substrates, followed by EuO films with several steps of thickness (350-1400 Å). A strong anti-parallel coupling is found. When the samples are cooled from room temperature to 10°K with the Fe film saturated, the two magnetizations are found to be 180° apart. If the magnetizations are forced to be parallel by an external field, then subsequent switching occurs by coupled rotation in opposite senses; that is, the magnetization components along the driving field are parallel and the transverse components are antiparallel. The details of the composite hysteresis loops can be explained in terms of the effective field acting within each film due to the coupling. Because of the coupling, the switching field of the composite film can be reduced to 25 Oe, which is much lower than either film alone."
"A method is given for calculating the minor and full hysteresis loops of a system of uniaxial single-domain particles with a common direction of easiest magnetization. A probabilistic approach is used in formulating the problem by means of two differential equations which are solved for the simple case of an infinite particle chain. The method is based on a model in which each particle is characterized by a rectangular hysteresis loop with a specific saturation field Hs, and the loops are influenced by the (homogeneous) external magnetic fieldHas well by the magnetization-dependent interaction of the particles among themselves."
"This paper describes the preparation of polycrystalline GdIG by hot pressing and reports the most relevant properties of the material. Hot pressed samples were prepared using various conditions of time (1 to 20 hours), temperature (900 to 1300°C), and pressure (300 to 1000 kg/cm2). Dense specimens with grain diameter ranging from 1 to 10μm were prepared. Thin wafers made by sectioning and polishing samples have high coercive field (higher than 200 Oe), good hysteresis loop squareness (Br/Bm = 0.85), and high figure of merit (2\\beta/\\alpha \\sim 2). These properties make them well suited for optical mass memory application. This was confirmed experimentally, and a bit density of5 \\times 10^{5}bit/cm2was obtained by laser beam thermomagnetic writing."
"A three-phase output frequency tripler is presented which operates with very little input-current distortion. In a conventional frequency tripler, filters for eliminating the higher harmonics in the input current must be placed in the primary lines. The frequency tripler described in this paper has a mechanism which suppresses the higher harmonics."
"This paper gives an introductory review of the field of phase transitions. The first part contains a general discussion of the dynamical mechanism of phase transitions. The interactions between the particles are shown to yield a feedback effect in the collective response of the system to small external perturbations. This feedback provides the mechanism which can give rise to instabilities for certain critical values of the external parameters. It is pointed out how the static aspects of the instability (characterized by a singularity in the static response function) are intimately related to dynamic aspects, namely the occurrence of soft collective modes and of critical fluctuations. In the second part, the general picture is illustrated by a number of specific examples. Experimental results on soft mode behavior and critical fluctuations are shown for ferromagnetic, antiferromagnetic, ferroelectric, and structural phase transitions. It is further demonstrated that the existence of critical fluctuations near a phase transition gives rise to anomalous behavior of various physical properties of the system. Finally, some problems are indicated which arise in connection with instabilities occurring in nonequilibrium systems."
"The family of spinel compounds of which CdCr2Se4is the prototype has been found to be simultaneously ferromagnetic and semiconducting. Numerous experiments reveal, moreover, that the electronic states in these materials are strongly coupled to the degree of magnetic order. The interaction between the electronic transport and the magnetic state offers the exciting possibility of constructing electronic devices having magnetic control. This paper presents a review of literature on the magnetic, crystallographic, electrical transport, and optical properties of the chromium chalcogenide spinels as they relate to device applications. The prospects of realizing novel devices utilizing these properties are examined."
"Current investigators are devoting considerable effort to the analysis of self- and adjacent bit demagnetization. However, it is shown in this paper that recording demagnetization degrades and limits digital recording to a greater extent than any other factor. Recording demagnetization reflected in the nonlinearity of the write process is the prime cause of pulse asymmetry. The nonlinear head field contour distribution results in the magnetization discontinuity in the transition zone being asymmetrical and becoming more asymmetrical as the write current increases beyond saturation. At high bit densities, recording demagnetization becomes so severe that only transition zones are recorded on the media, leading to a sinusoidal magnetization distribution. It is also shown that the manufacturing process of particulate media can introduce several adverse conditions which will affect recording demagnetization."
"Limitations imposed on free-running parallel inverters by the interdependence of critical characteristics of the networks, transformers, and switching elements of these inverters are identified. The transformer's role within these networks with abruptly changing circuit configurations is related to the network's functional mechanism. Special attention is devoted to forms of \"volatile\" returnable energy stored within the intended paths of magnetic flux and to magnetic saturation effects in pertinent transformer cores that cause harmful current spikes at the termination of individual cycles of operation. Returnable magnetic energies stored in representative \"square loop\" iron and ferrite transformer cores per unit of volume, and in related air gaps are calculated and tabulated for comparison and reference. A method for mitigation of storage of unwanted magnetic energy and for the prevention of magnetic saturation in inverter transformer cores is presented; it is reinforced with quantitative relations and a report on experimental work."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The magnetic properties of sputtered films of 25 Co-75 Cu and 50 Co-50 Cu before and after annealing were investigated. In the as-sputtered state the films exhibit the structure of a metastable fcc solid solution. Annealing at 500 to 700°C causes decomposition into two phases, Cu and fcc 89 Co-11 Cu. The decomposition supposedly occurs by heterogeneous nucleation at the grain boundaries, and growth by grain boundary diffusion. The 89 Co-11 Cu phase exists in the form of small particles with magnetic single domain behavior. The films have coercivities up to 280 Oe. Squareness ratios between 0.7 and 0.9 were found. No strain sensitivity of the magnetic properties could be detected. This material is regarded to be suitable for magnetic recording."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A modified model ofM(H)curves which uses a more realistic family of minor loops has been designed for a theory of pulse recording. The loops are defined by the initial and maximal permeability,\\mu aand\\mu m, as well as by the reversible permeability\\mu rof the tape. The calculation of the demagnetizing field, the magnetization transition, and the effective flux through the reproduce head is carried out by solving the Poisson differential equation, taking into account the boundary conditions of a two-dimensional head model. The calculation is carried out for an isolated linear magnetization transition of nonzero width. It results in Fourier integrals, the solution being provided by series expansion or approximation. The pulse amplitude and pulsewidth are given as simplified analytical functions of the tape permeability."
"The steady-state performance of a Raman laser oscillator can be described by a simple standing-wave theory. This theory has been extended to take into account the time variation of the exciting laser pulse. The resulting differential equation is nonlinear, but analytic expressions can be obtained in the limiting cases of small-signal amplification and saturation. Experimental results in H2gas are compared with theory and show good agreement. The phase-matching conditions appropriate to the Raman oscillator are derived and verified experimentally."
"The measured small-signal gain of 4.8 dB/m for a sealed-off COs amplifier with average bore of 25 mm compares favorably with the highest gain published for a flowing-gas type. The saturated gain for this 9-meter amplifier was 1.2 dB/m with 95-watts output when sealed off and 1.3 dB/m with 110-watts output for a flowing-gas system."
"Diode lasers have been fabricated from Bi-doped Pb1-xSnxTe with0.24 \\leq x \\leq 0.27, which have threshold current densities as low as 1400 A.cm-2at 77°K and 71 A.cm-2at 12°K, whereas diodes fabricated from undoped Pb1-xSnxTe> in this composition range did not exhibit laser action for current densities up to 30 000 A.cm-2at 77°K and had threshold current densities greater than 200 A.cm-2at 12°K. Bi doping also results in a reduction in the annealing times required to form suitablep-njunctions from several weeks to a few days. These effects can be tentatively related to an increased electron concentration in then-type layer due to the addition of Bi, a donor impurity. A curve ofEgversusxfor0 \\leq x \\leq 0.4, which agrees with predictions, is presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Large reversible photochromic changes were observed in SrTiO3double doped with Mo and either Fe or Ni. The photochromic absorption is induced by irradiation in the vicinity of 4000 Å and decays thermally in minutes or can be bleached to its original state by long wavelength radiation. A model is presented in which a charge is transferred between the Fe and Mo ions via the conduction or valence bands. Optical absorption, heat treatment, and EPR data are presented, which support the model."
"A thin crystal of CdS produced well-defined standing waves in spontaneous light emission when end-pumped by an electron beam at excitation levels six orders of magnitude below that necessary for stimulated emission. Single-frequency mode output was observed in stimulated emission at 5205 Å at room temperature. At 77°K and at excitation levels well above threshold, laser emission was observed to occur continuously over a spectral range of nearly 200 Å, from 4960 to 5150 Å."
"The characteristics of idealized photochromic materials are defined. The optical properties of rare-earth-doped CaF2and transition-metal-doped SrTiO3photochromic materials are outlined. The operational parameters of these inorganic photochromic materials pertinent to electrooptic applications are described."
"Phase pulsations between normal frequencies and combination tones can be observed using a scanning interferometer. Results are in substantial agreement with Lamb's theory for three-normal-frequency operation. Isolated combination tones have also been observed."
"The resonant modes of GaAs junction lasers are obtained from a proposed model and compared with experimental results. Theoretical results are based on an assumed laser medium whose dielectric constant varies both along and perpendicular to the junction plane. The frequency separations of the transverse modes are found to be in very good agreement with presented high-resolution spectral measurements of stripe-geometry laser radiation. Furthermore, the theoretical field distributions are also in good agreement with observed transverse field variations reported previously. The laser output spectrum usually shows a number of \"satellites\" located adjacent to each longitudinal (Fabry-Perot) resonance. It is shown that each satellite represents the frequency of a transverse resonance having a different mode number along the junction plane and a corresponding Hermite-Gaussian intensity profile along the plane. Theory shows that the frequency separation of two adjacent satellites is related to the falloff rate of the dielectric constant along the junction plane. This focusing is measured from the intensity profile of a far-field pattern. From this information, the theoretical frequency separation is calculated and found to agree well with the measured separation of 6.4 GHz (0.15 Å)."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Basic data on the Kr+ laser such as the population densities, pumping rates, lifetimes, etc., of all the upper laser states and those states that contribute significantly to the populations of these upper laser states have been obtained. These results were obtained on the basis of the calculated EinsteinAcoefficients and the measured spontaneous emission data for the Kr+ laser discharge. The implications of these results on the further development and the characteristics of the Kr+ laser are also discussed in some detail. It is shown, for example, that the Kr+ laser is potentially capable of producing substantial amounts of CW laser power in the red at current levels below the threshold of the Kr+ discharge instability."
"A laser interferometer was used to determine the spatial distribution of the neon1s_{5}metastable states in an auxiliary active discharge, identical to the one used for a He-Ne laser at 6401 Å. The resulting distribution was a parabola, which crossed zero at the discharge tube walls. Measurements of the 6401-Å spot size were used to determine the axial metastable density from the calculation of the gas lens effect associated with this radial distribution. Excellent agreement was obtained between the two methods. The results show that the lens effect of these metastables is responsible for the anomalous appearance of lasering at 6401 Å in near-hemispherical cavities. For such resonators, the effective radius of curvature of the spherical mirror is increased while the equivalent mirror spacing is decreased; thus, the diffraction losses at 6401 Å are significantly reduced. Preliminary results are also given to show that the lens effect is more pronounced for the higher order modes."
"Gaussian beams generated within astigmatic resonators are themselves astigmatic, having wavefront curvatures and spot sizes that are different when measured in two orthogonal directions. Expressions are derived for the confocal parameters, spot sizes, waist positions, and stability conditions of beams formed within spherical mirror resonators that contain one or more inclined plates (or Brewster-ended laser rods). An expression is also derived for the resonant frequencies of the TEMmnmode in such a resonator. It is shown that the frequency degeneracy between modes of the samem + nis lifted and the frequency splittings are calculated. The astigmatism produced by prisms used for dispersion is also considered and precautions are described for avoiding serious astigmatism in resonators containing such prisms."
"The dependence of the saturation parameter of a double-resonance laser upon atomic linewidths for small RF perturbations was deduced incorrectly from general equations given in [1]. The correct expression for the saturation parameter is derived. Experimental observations are in agreement with the theory."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theory is developed of laser mode locking due to saturable absorbers when the dispersive property of the active material is taken into account. The electric field within the cavity is expanded in terms of cavity modes, the problem is treated under the rate-equation approximation, and only third-order nonlinear polarization terms of the dye are considered. The field is assumed to be made of2N + 1oscillating modes. It is shown that, owing to dispersion, the phase φlof the modes (lrunning from-Nto+N) has a term that is proportional to l2and a term (smaller than the previous one) that is proportional to l4. In agreement with the experimental results, the term proportional to l2increases the pulsewidth of the total electric field over the case of perfect mode-locking and it also gives a positive linear sweep of the field frequency. The pulsewidth increase is expressed by a factor γ that is proportional to the fourth power of the oscillating bandwidth, to the square of the relaxation time T1of the dye, and to the product of the length of the active material times a quantity ε that is related to dispersion of the material."
"Saturable absorbers for use in the infrared, consisting of molecular gases, are considered. A basic objective of the study is the understanding and prediction of saturation behavior. A model for the absorber is developed. Features considered include 1) strong interaction between the absorbing pair of vibrational-rotational levels and numerous neighboring levels; 2) spatial diffusion of molecules; 3) temperature gradients; 4) distortion of optical beams by the saturable absorber; 5) inhomogeneous broadening of absorbing transitions; 6) effects of geometry of the absorption cell. The model is intended to be quite general in its applicability, but is particularly considered in relation to absorption of CO2laser radiation by sulfur hexafluoride. The equations arising from the absorber model are complex, but under suitable assumptions can be simplified. Experiments have been performed to determine the values of the relevant parameters for SF6absorbers. These values are inserted into the general absorber model and the resulting equations solved by digital computation. The theoretical saturation behavior thus obtained is in reasonably good agreement with saturation behavior observed in experiments with SF6."
"Experimental results of electrooptic deflection at 1 GHz using KD*P prisms are presented. Using iterated KD*P prisms of 1 cm active length in a parallel plate resonator, deflections up to 3.9 mrad were obtained at -10°C. This deflection corresponds to 8 resolvable spots."
"A simple technique is reported for determining if oscillation is occurring simultaneously at 3.39 μ and 632.8 nm in a He-Ne laser. It relies on observation of modulation of the output power at 632.8 nm when a variable path length element is introduced into the optical cavity of the laser. The technique is applicable to other gas laser systems where competition for upper level populations occurs between transitions at widely differing wavelengths."
"It is shown that the results in the above on pulse transmission of saturable absorbers are amenable to analysis by the dynamic transmission model."
"Q-switched CO2laser pulses generated with an offset rotating mirror have been found to be frequency-swept (chirped). Chirp rates as high as 120 MHz/μs have been observed."
"Giant pulse lasers with slowly openedQswitches have experimentally been demonstrated to have a significantly lower beam divergence than the same laser with a quickly openedQswitch. The two types of slowly openingQswitch in most common use are rotating prisms and Faraday rotators. In this paper the pulse buildup with a Faraday-rotatorQswitch is analyzed and it is shown that an optimum condition exists where the laser will match the switch with negligible loss in the slow switching. Experiments are then reported in which this analysis is confirmed in detail by comparing the measured output linewidth with that expected from an analysis of the resonant reflector used, and results derived from the experimental power-tuning curve. The far-field spatial distribution was Lorentzian with a full width at half-peak intensity of2.7 \\times 10^{-4}rad and was caused by the scattering in the average-quality ruby rod used."
"Time constants as low as 20 μs have been observed when the beam of a helium-neon laser is focused on a small spot on a thin dye sample and the thermal self-defocusing effects observed. The short time constant arises mainly from the small spot size, but to some extent from axial heat flow to the cell ends. The analysis takes into account the axial heat flow, the variation of spot size within the cell, and diffraction defocusing. Agreement between analysis and experiment is good except for cases of the smallest spot sizes, in which case convective turbulence was observed."
"An analytical theory is given of the spectrum of the pulses generated by a ring laser that is mode locked by a synchronously modulated absorber. A steady-state solution is defined by requiring that, in a round trip, the joint effect of the active medium and the modulated absorber leave the pulses unchanged. The resulting integral equation is solved approximately, and the frequency spectrum of the pulses is obtained in closed form. Although the spectrum cannot be transformed analytically to obtain the pulse shape, the second moment of the shape, which gives a measure of the width, is found. The spectrum and width are found to depend on the curvature of the modulator waveform, near its maximum transmission, and on the gain and bandwidth of the active medium, which is assumed to have a Lorentzian line shape."
"Pulsed argon-ion lasers show several interesting properties at high currents. To understand the inversion mechanism, the plasma parameters, electrical conductivity, electron temperature, and electron density were measured with the double-probe method for the pressure range from 15 to 50 mtorr in a 6-mm-bore tube. When the discharge current increases from 100 to 700 amperes at the optimum pressure for laser oscillation, these parameters increase from 250 to450\\Omega^{-1}\\cdotcm-1, from8 \\times 10^{4}to10^{5}\\degK, and2 \\times 10^{14}to 1015cm-3, respectively. At the maximum electron density, the percent of ionization appears to be in excess of 100 percent, as a result of the pinch effect and double ionization. It is certain that this ring discharge is at least ionized very strongly. In a 10-mm-bore tube, only the electron temperature and density were measured. The current dependence of the laser output power at high currents is interpreted with those results. Excitation mechanisms of high-current argon-ion lasers are discussed with experiments and theories for strongly ionized plasmas."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Self-induced regular pulsations of the light intensity of GaAs injection lasers have been observed in pulse-driven diodes at liquid-nitrogen temperatures. The pulses occur at a repetition frequency of 500 MHz to 1 GHz, and the pulsewidth is less than 400 ps. These results are examined in the light of two theories that have been proposed to explain this kind of behavior in the GaAs laser. The basic differences between these two models are briefly described."
"Thirteen laser lines of the 1-0, 2-1, and 3-1 bands of the first positive system of N2were detected and their wavelengths measured. Eleven laser lines were classified and two more reclassified."
"Simple rate equations have been used to analyze the steady-state behavior of a double-cavity diode laser with two separately driven active regions, one of which is shared by both cavities. It is shown that the output from one cavity depends with an inverse linear relationship on the output of the other, in agreement with the experimental results of Kosonocky, Cornely, and Marlowe. The stability of the steady-state solutions has been studied by a perturbation method, yielding a value for the response time of 0.2 ns. It is found that unstable situations exist for certain values of some of the parameters, indicating the possibility of an oscillatory output. A similar method of analysis has been used to obtain the response time of a normal single-cavity laser. For abrupt changes in the drive current when the laser is already emitting, the calculated response time is in good agreement with the experimental values obtained by Basov et al."
"The effect of refractive index changes, caused by nonuniform saturation of the laser medium, on the wavefront of a beam propagating through a laser amplifier is considered. A number of examples of wavefront distortion are included. The effect of saturation-induced phase distortions on beam divergence and frequency modulation is discussed."
"Small-scale optically trapped filaments in liquid CS2were studied by side illumination and crossed polarizers using the second-harmonic radiation of a mode-locked Nd3+: glass laser. Filaments produced by Nd3+laser radiation (1.06 μ) exhibited birefringence of magnitude(2 \\pm 1) \\times 10^{-3}and duration times< 10^{-11}second."
"Two compounds derived from 2-hydroxyquinoline were found to lase in the violet region of the spectrum when pumped by a flashlamp. Two aminocoumarin derivatives, under the same conditions, lased intensely in the range from 440 to 480 nm at a wavelength that depended on the addition of acid."
"A flashlamp-pumped coumarin dye laser mode-locked by means of intracavity loss modulation has produced subnanosecond, millijoule pulses suitable for pumping other dye lasers or for application to fast photochemical reaction studies."
"Infrared images at 1.06 μ are up-converted in KDP with an angular aperture of more than 20°. The images are up-converted by scanning the orientation of the KDP. The technique is applicable when noncritical phase matching does not allow sufficient angular aperture."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A calculation is made of the efficiency of laser difference-frequency power generation in the far infrared by reflection from the surface of metals and semiconductors. It is assumed that the essential nonlinearity is that associated with the Lorentz force on conduction electrons for whichP^{NLS} = \\alpha(E_{L} \\times H_{L}). It is shown that, when two 1-kW separately tuned CO2lasers are used as primary sources, as much as 10-4watts in the100-1000 \\murange may be generated under favorable conditions. No phase matching of primary and difference-frequency waves is required."
"Traveling-wave operation of a ruby laser has been obtained by the use of a 5° Faraday rotator. Mode selection in a TW ruby laser with electroopticalQswitching is discussed."
"In relation to recent experiments, a quantitative discussion of the microscopic mechanisms accounting for second-harmonic generation (SHG) and harmonic mixing in isotropic media immersed in a dc electric field is given, comprising the temperature-independent effect of nonlinear electronic polarizability and the temperature-dependent effect of reorientation of permanent electric dipoles. It is shown that in the case of a very strong dc electric field, when all the microsystems undergo complete alignment in the direction of the field vector, these two mechanisms attain saturation, raising considerably the intensity of SHG in the case of prolate microsystems and lowering it in the case of oblate ones. Electric saturation effects can take place in strongly dipolar molecular substances but are especially intense in solutions of macromolecules and colloid particles. The discussion covers, moreover, the symmetry relations between the nonzero elements of the nonlinear susceptibility tensor of the medium in weak as well as in strong electric fields, and the application of these relations in determining the values of elements of the tensors of second- and third-order polarizabilities of the individual microsystems. A preliminary interpretation of the available experimental data is proposed, and new procedures of SHG measurements are suggested."
"Experimental results are reported demonstrating the possibility of achieving parametric gain in an inverted paramagnetic medium. In this case the parametric pump frequency may be lower than the signal frequency. The authors used chromium-doped rutile as the active material, a pump frequency of 150 MHz, and a signal frequency of 4.25 GHz. The parametric effect is strongly supported by adjusting the idling circuit for high master gain."
"A simple light modulator employing an interdigital microwave circuit and a short electrooptic crystal is described. Greater than 30 percent amplitude modulation, obtained by modulating the crystal birefringence, has been obtained between 0.8 and 2.3 GHz using 5 watts of RF drive power."
"Multiple interactions of optical and microwave fields in an electrooptical crystal have yielded low-power optical phase modulation over a 4.6-GHz bandwidth."
"The power output of a water vapor laser operating in the region from 28 to 119 μ has been increased at least five times by the addition of helium. The optimum mixture was 1.2-torr H2O and 4.6-torr He."
"The wavelength of a flashlamp-pumped sodium fluorescein dye laser is found to sweep toward decreasing values during each pulse but shifts gradually toward increasing values for successive pulses. Overlap of singlet-state fluorescence and absorption bands, along with chemical changes in the dye, can account for the observed effects."
"The steady-state thermal defocusing of CO2laser radiation (10.6-μ wavelength) in gases has been investigated experimentally and theoretically. The increase in the beam diameter and change in intensity caused by the self-induced index of refraction variations in absorbing gases has been studied as a function of laser beam power, the absorption coefficient of the gas, and the absorption pathlength. A Mach-Zehnder interferometer was used to examine directly the changes in the index of refraction of the absorbing gas, which cause the thermal defocusing. The experimental results compare favorably with a perturbation solution of thermal defocusing, taking into account the effects of thermal conduction and natural convection."
"Modulation of a laser signal at radio frequencies ranging from 28 to 347 MHz is experimentally investigated by subjecting coherently emitting atoms of a Xe-He laser amplifier to simultaneous dc and RF magnetic fields. The sidebands are generated by a coherent nonlinear process that exhibits resonances when the Zeeman splitting of the laser levels equals the frequency of the magnetic field. A perturbational theory that is based on a simplified(j = 1 \\right arrow j = 0)atomic model adequately describes the dependence of the modulation efficiency on the dc magnetic field, the signal frequency, and atomic parameters. A presently unexplained phenomenon is the absence of the upper sideband."
"A relation between the incremental-gain constant and population difference of a medium with mixed broadening, which is valid for large-intensity signals, is derived."
"The diffraction losses of the cylindrical confocal resonator having a circular coupling aperture in the center of one of the resonator mirrors have been calculated over the range of resonator Fresnel numbers0 \\leq N_{b} \\leq 1.6by the numerical iteration technique of Fox and Li. The specific paths by which energy is diffracted from the resonator have also been investigated and a class of equivalent resonators found that maximizes the energy diffracted through the aperture for a given value of total diffraction loss."
"The results of an experimental and theoretical study of the properties of a confocal unstable resonator used with a conventional CO2-N2-He laser operating at 10.6 μ are presented. Measurements were made of the near- and far-field intensity distribution of the aligned resonator for Fresnel numbers of 3.7, 6.1, and 7.1. Fundamental mode operation was achieved in all cases. Beam steering and mode degradation associated with mirror misalignment were also studied experimentally. Suitable geometric models have been developed to account for 1) the sensitivity of the resonator output coupling and center far-field intensity to variations in the resonator length and mirror curvatures, and 2) the sensitivity of the beam direction and power to angular misalignment of the mirrors."
"Experimental evidence is presented to verify that the laser light scattered at 90° from laser-induced breakdown plasmas in air is not due to Thomson scattering from free electrons as has been generally assumed. The scattering appears to be dominated by reflections from the interfaces of minute localized regions of high electron density. The geometry of the scattering regions indicates that self-focusing may occur in the plasmas generated in some gases."
"Resonance line shape and filling factor are two important parameters that condition the gain, oscillation threshold, output power, and short-term frequency stability of optically pumped alkali vapor masers. Both quantities are calculated using density matrix formalism and taking atomic motion into account. Some experimental verifications and methods for measuring the filling factor in a given configuration are indicated."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Laser action was obtained from rhodamine 6G and sodium fluorescein solutions by transverse pumping with a pulsed nitrogen laser. Relatively high efficiencies were observed and the threshold powers required were low. A repetition rate of ∼70 Hz was achieved with modest pump powers."
"A simplified model is used to calculate the unsaturated gains of far-infrared rotational and vibrational-rotational laser transitions that are caused by rotational perturbations. Inversions are derived from the perturbation of an initial Boltzmann distribution of rotational populations, permitting the calculation of laser gains in terms of the perturbation parameters and the vibrational populations. The gain equations are applied to the three perturbations of H2O16that result in the largest number of laser lines. Numerical gain values in good qualitative agreement with experimental results are obtained."
"Single-frequency oscillation has been obtained from an Ar laser of increased power level with the help of a three-mirror Smith reflector (power in the 4880-Å line was 2 watts). Equations and plots that permit the choice of optimum parameters of the three-mirror reflector are given. It is shown that for effective frequency selection in a high-power laser of great length it is necessary to use beam splitter reflectivities exceeding 0.5. Single-frequency lasers of this type may be used in holography."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"It is shown that the nonuniformity of excitation produced in circular cross-section solid-state lasers due to the focusing of pump power leads to a coupling of certain modes and reduction in their threshold of oscillation. These modes correspond in plane-wave representation to simple closed paths in the cavity. The off-axial radiation observed in the form of rings by Collins and Giordmaine and others is explained on the basis of the theory."
"Simultaneous laser emission at 337 and 118 μ has been observed in a pulsed discharge through a mixture of N2, O2, and either CH4or (C2H5)2O. Earlier observation of a laser line at 469 μ is rejected and explained."
"The buildup of single-mode laser oscillations is investigated for the 0.633-μ transition of a helium-neon laser at levels of relative excitation significantly above threshold (1.5 \\leq n \\leq 4) using a fast intra-cavity chopper. The time response agrees with theory. The evolution of the signal provides information on the saturation mechanism and allows a very simple determination of resonator quality, relative excitation, unsaturated gain, and degree of saturation of a laser. The saturation parameter is found to depend on the discharge current. This is attributed to a variation of the gas density in the capillary discharge tube caused by gas heating, which affects the collision-dominated atomic lifetimes."
"Results of our investigation of the optical homogeneity of ruby crystals and its relation to the main laser-emission characteristics (i.e., beam divergence, far-field intensity distribution, energy output, and spectra of modes) are described. Good correlation has been found between the laser characteristics and the optical properties of the investigated ruby samples. On the basis of the experimental data, the different sources of the optical inhomogeneity of the ruby crystals grown by the Verneuil method and their influence on the laser characteristics are analyzed. It is shown, in particular, that internal mechanical strains have the most injurious effect on the beam divergence, the intensity distribution, and the mode-selection conditions. It is found that a volume light scattering contribution in laser energy losses is, to a large extent, due to the Rayleigh component of scattering. Laser-produced surface-damage experiments with ruby and sapphire crystals are also described. A variable pulse duration between1-400 \\mus under normal laser operation and 30-ns Q-switched pulsed laser operation have been employed in these experiments. Optical and structural surface properties and their effect on a surface-damage threshold have been studied and the mechanism of laser-produced surface damage is discussed."
"This paper deals with the general concepts of mode interaction in the case of homogeneous line broadening. A simple analysis of rate equations for the radiation fields of the operating modes based on a somewhat phenomenological picture describes the asymptotic values of the mode intensities. Conditions are deduced in which mode interaction leads to the survival of only the most strongly excited mode, although initially all competing modes are above threshold. It is argued that this theory holds for CO2lasers. As examples we calculate competition between 1) the TEM00and TEM01mode and 2) two rotational transitions."
"Transverse passive mode locking by the dye technique has been obtained for a Nd3+glass laser with a confocal cavity. The laser energy is concentrated in a wave packet which propagates back and forth within the cavity along closed optical paths."
"Temperatures and densities of atoms and electrons were obtained by spectroscopic methods in a gas discharge plasma used for CW ion-argon lasers. The measurements were carried out with capillaries 250-400 mm long with a bore diameter of 1.6-2.8 mm. The filling pressures were 0.2-0.7 torr and the discharge current densities 100-500 A/cm2. Electron temperatures were found from measured side-on widths of ArII lines using the Kagan-Perel theory. The electron densities were determined from the width of the Hβline and from electro-conductivity. The ionization rate was evaluated through the Doppler shift of spectral lines as well as through half-widths of the ArII lines taken along the discharge. For this purpose, the Kagan-Perel theory was used also. Population rates of the4s, 5s, 4p, 3d, and4dArII configurations of the ion ground state were calculated as well as radiation transition probabilities. With the aid of these data, population rates and densities were found for the doublet term system of configurations4sand4p. Population inversion was also evaluated. A comparison of the results of calculation with the experiment was carried out."
"Expressions are derived for the dispersion of a laser gain medium at arbitrary values of the power density within the laser. These expressions apply to multimode operation of a laser where the mode spacing is less than the pressure-broadened atomic linewidth. The dispersion calculations are used to predict the spectra of beats between adjacent oscillating modes as a function of parameters characterizing the laser cavity and the gain medium. Experiments aimed at testing the accuracy of the threoretical predictions are described. It is shown that the theory gives a reasonably good description of the variation of the center frequency of the beat spectrum with internal power density. However, for reasonably high power densities, the observed width of the beat spectrum considerably exceeds that predicted. This discrepancy is related to an effective width of each oscillating mode."
"Water-vapor lasers oscillate on more than a hundred pulsed lines and over a dozen CW lines over the wavelength range from 7 to 220 μ (1300-45 cm-1). Nearly eighty of these lines are now identified as vibrational-rotational and pure rotational transition in the low-lying vibrational states of the water-vapor molecule. The structure of the water-vapor molecule is reviewed, and the mechanisms responsible for creating population inversions in water-vapor discharges are discussed. It is shown how a model, based on perturbations between rotational levels of different vibrational states, can be used to explain the laser action and to predict new laser lines. Detailed summaries of data on all observed laser lines in H2O16, H2O18, and D2O16and their identifications are presented. Some of the lines are newly reported, and more accurate wavelength measurements have been made for many of the lines. The observation of predicted laser lines in H2O18is shown to be a strong confirmation of the perturbation model. The list of references contains a fairly complete bibliography of previous work on the water-vapor laser, and a representative bibliography of work on the energy-level structure of the water-vapor molecule."
"An experimental relation is found between the pyroelectric and electrooptic coefficients of several ferroelectric materials. The physical basis of this relation is explained using Garrett's anharmonic oscillator model, and the pyroelectric coefficients of Sr0.25Ba0.75Nb2O6, Sr2NaNb5O15,Ba2NaNb5O15, KSr2Nb5O15, K3Li2- Nb5O15, and Ag3AsS3are predicted from the known electrooptic coefficients."
"The cross-correlation coefficientc = | c | \\cdot e^{i \\vartheta}between the laser light noise and the diode voltage noise has been measured for three CW GaAs laser diodes at 77°K. A strong dependence ofcon laser diode current has been found."
"A low-noise He-Ne laser discharge tube that eliminates discharge modulation noise is described. The noise levels, both in the discharge current and in the laser output, are suppressed by more than 40 dB when the discharge current is below 42 mA."
"Results of spectroscopic investigations of the spontaneous emission of CO2lasers are presented. The band head emission in the Second Positive System (C^{3}\\pi_{u}- B^{3}\\pi_{g}) of N2is studied as a function of discharge current and laser output power. The observed changes of the band head intensities are described in terms of the vibrational energy distribution in theC^{3}\\pi_{u}electronic state of N2. A simple model is developed by which the influence of the laser process can be understood. The excitation properties of theC^{3}\\pi_{u}state are in reasonable qualitative agreement with the predictions of this model."
"Relative second-harmonic power generated in a non-linear crystal has been measured for a multimode He-Ne 0.63-μ laser source operating unlocked and in two different types of spontaneous locking. For the same average laser power the harmonic power was 2.15 times larger forc/2Lpulsing than forc/Lpulsing, in good agreement with a predicted value of 2.18. The harmonic enhancement forc/2Lpulsing compared with unlocked operation was 3.31, considerably lower than the analytic estimate of 4.2, indicating that significant interaction was present between the modes of the unlocked laser."
"We consider the noise characteristics and the optimization of an up-converter IR detector. We compare the converter to the conventional photoconductive detector and discuss the particular strengths and weaknesses for pulse and CW signal detecttion of the converter."
"Evidence of the combined influence of disaligning and velocity-changing collisions on laser light-induced saturation peaks or holes in the velocity distribution of Ne2p_{4}atoms was obtained by transmitting 1.15-μ light of a short single-mode He-Ne laser through the discharge tube of a long single-mode Michelson interferometer-type He-Ne laser oscillating at 0.63 μ, and by measuring the frequency-dependent single pass gain of the IR light in the discharge of the latter laser. Atoms that have undergone a transition in the linearly polarized red-laser light field are partially aligned. The width of the detected signal depends on the He gas pressure and also on the mutual polarization of the two laser fields. This indicates a smaller velocity broadening for aligned atoms than for collisionally disaligned ones. An evaluation of the data provides information on the correlation of the above-mentioned collision processes and on phase-disturbing and phase-nondisturbing contributions to the line broadening. Estimate values of the integral elastic Ne2p_{4}-He scattering cross section and a cross section for phase shifting collisions are given."
"A submillimeter wave of 0.34-mm wavelength with peak power of ∼10-3watt has been generated in ZnTe by beating the R1and R2lines of aQ-switched ruby laser. As the detectorn-InSb cooled to 1.7°K was used. The dependence of the beat power upon the angle between incident electric fields and the crystallographic axis was in accordance with the43msymmetry. The observed beat power was smaller, by three orders of magnitude, than the calculated one based on the assumption of collinear plane waves. A theory including the effect of input beam divergence inside the crystal gives a beat power fairly close to the measured value. Some results of auxiliary experiments supporting our viewpoint are also given."
"For the pulse pumped CO2laser we used Q-switching to investigate inversion kinetics. The pump was synchronized with the Q-switching mirror. It was possible to obtain the Q-switch pulses at any phase of the pump pulse. The repetition rate was 50 Hz and the pump pulse duration was 4 or 10 ms. It was found that there is an optimum delay in switching the cavity Q-factor after the discharge started. The giant pulse intensity increased several times after the discharge was switched from CW to pulses. The inversion rise time was 1-2 ms and its lifetime was strongly dependent on the discharge current, due to plasma heating during the current pulse. Increasing the helium percentage in the discharge prolonged the inversion lifetime because of high thermal conductivity of helium gas. Gaseous BCl3was chosen to obtain the CO2laser giant pulses with bleachable filter. The vibronic frequency V3of the B11Cl3molecules coincides with thePlines of the CO2laser. Rarer B10Cl3corresponds to less activeRlines. Pure BCl3did not give the giant pulses. Adding helium to the BCl3cell gave the pulses. The best results came from adding very small amounts of ammonia NH3because of the effective vibrational energy transfer between colliding BCl3and NH3molecules."
"Polarization dependence of the nonlinear behavior of a high-gain strongly saturated 3.39-μ He-Ne laser amplifier is experimentally investigated. It is found that while circularly and linearly polarized signals propagate through the medium with their polarization unchanged, elliptically polarized signals undergo a change of eccentricity. In addition, the nonlinear gain depends on the input polarization: saturation is strongest for circular and weakest for linear polarization. Excellent agreement is found between the experiment and theoretical predictions."
"A novel form of laser is described in which the beam is swept successively down the different sections of a slab of laser glass that form an amplifier chain. Diaphragms in the constant path section of the system force operation in the TEM00mode while a grid of glass fibers down the slab gives a shortening of the pulse: half-widths of 2.9-80 ns depending on the number of grids. Absence of depletion effects in the laser medium until the last few stages makes the pulse length independent of the laser power, which is itself limited only by depletion of the stored energy and the beam area, up to 100 MW in the present design. The operational difficulties found in practice are discussed together with possible means of improving the system to give a wider range of pulse lengths and peak powers."
"Experimental studies of collision effects on the saturation characteristics of vibration-rotation transitions for00\\deg1-10\\deg0 band of CO2is described. Saturation was studied in a passive absorption cell inside the laser resonator. The saturation value could be altered by varying the cell temperature and the pressure of CO2. Vibration-rotation transitions, at pressures greater than or equal to 1 mmHg, were found to be saturated homogeneously, in spite of the fact that the Lorenz width was much less than the Doppler width. This is explained by the high number of collisions during the lifetime in a vibrational state. In this case the spectrum of a single molecule corresponds to that of a Doppler profile. Cross sections for the destruction of levels of00\\deg1-10\\deg0by added gases have been obtained, which att = 800\\degK appeared to be σCO2-He =6 \\times 10^{-19};\\sigmaCO2-Ne =2.8 \\times 10^{-18}; \\sigmaCO2-CO2=6.6 \\times 10^{-18}; \\sigmaCO2-N2=1.2 \\times 10^{-17}cm2The introduction of sufficiently large absorption caused self-sustained radiation pulsation. When the field influenced the saturating system for only a short period of time, with the interaction time being commensurate with the period of time between collisions, the line was saturated nonhomogeneously. This was expressed by the fact that with the scanning of the laser frequency, a peak power output was observed, corresponding to Lamb's hole, in the center of a saturation line."
"The effects of various discharge tube parameters on the center frequency of the Doppler-broadened (3s_{2}-2p_{4}) 6328-å lasing transition in Ne20and Ne22have been measured. Frequency shifts from17\\frac{1}{2}to 23 MHz/torr were measured in the discharge depending on the combination of helium and neon isotopes used. No measurable shift in Lamb dip frequency was found with discharge tube current or laser radiation intensity. In addition, an analysis is presented of the possible causes of the pressure-frequency shifts, the result being that they may be attributed to collisions between the excited neon atoms (3s2level) and ground-state helium atoms."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theoretical analysis of the threshold condition for stimulated Raman oscillation is presented. The treatment, similar to that applied recently to optical parametric generation, assumes that a low loss resonator is provided for the Stokes radiation and accordingly pump depletion is neglected in the threshold calculation. Diffraction effects are included in detail, within the paraxial ray limits of Gaussian beam theory. The oscillation threshold for the fundamental resonator mode is expressed as a function of resonator losses, focusing conditions of pump and Stokes waves, and the length of the active medium."
"Investigations of quantum mechanical frequency doubling in ruby are reported. Experimental results are given for the 4.04-GHz output from a ruby sample driven at 2.02 GHz when 4.04 GHz corresponds to paramagnetic resonance. The variation of output power with orientation differs appreciably from the well-known variation of the linear (maser) effect. Good agreement with theoretical results has been achieved."
"The approach used by McCumber for treating phonon-terminated lasers is applied to investigate the gain properties of dye lasers and is extended to include effects arising from population buildup in the triplet-level system and associated triplet-triplet absorptive losses. The gain is expressed in terms of time-dependent excited-state populations and spectral emission and/or absorption functions. For a given optical-pump pulse, a computer program is used to solve rate equations for the populations up to threshold and to calculate the gain as a function of time and frequency. The gain varies with frequency over the broad fluorescence bands characteristic of dye molecules and with time until the threshold for laser action is reached. Experiments using rhodamine 6G verify the predicted dependence of the laser frequency and time of threshold on cavityQand demonstrate laser frequency tuning by adjusting the opening time of an intracavityQswitch. No variation of laser frequency is expected for fluorescing molecules exhibiting large Stokes shifts; this is observed for 7-hydroxycoumarin. Computer calculations of the gain for anthracene and rhodamine B illustrate the dependence of gain properties on the rate of intersystem crossing and triplet-triplet absorption. An estimate of the rate of intersystem crossing for rhodamine B in methanol is obtained from a comparison of predicted and observed laser threshold conditions. Requirements for achieving flashlamp-pumped laser action are shown to depend upon both flashlamp and dye properties and are analyzed using the above approach."
"A repetitivelyQ-switched ruby laser with 30-kW 30-ns pulses, suitable for many nonlinear optics experiments, is described. Using this laser SHG in KDP located outside the laser cavity yielded ≳ 4-kW pulses at 3472 Å with conversion efficiencies of ∼16 percent at the peak. A correction to existing SHG theories accounting for pump depletion (important at high conversions) has been calculated with the resulting improvement in agreement between theory and experiment. Experiments involving stimulated Raman scattering and vacuum UV generation from laser-produced plasmas are briefly described."
"A variable CO2laser attenuator with a dynamic range of 33 dB, large power handling capability, and reproducible attenuation has been constructed."
"This paper provides a review of papers published on laser induced gas breakdown. The material is divided into four parts: 1) breakdown mechanism, 2) plasma expansion under the influence of the laser pulse, 3) plasma decay after the end of the laser pulse, and 4) bibliography of papers published on the subject up to the end of May, 1968."
"Pulsed laser action at 77°K has been demonstrated in LiYF4:Er3+, Ho3+with an emission wavelength of 2.066 μ. The laser transition is the5I_{7} \\rightarrow5I8in trivalent holmium, and there is evidence of energy transfer from erbium to holmium. The fluorescent lifetime is approximately 20 ms, and the pulsed threshold is 40 joules."
"The effects of level degeneracy on the polarization dependence of photon echoes and of combination tones in gases are compared. A remarkable similarity in behavior is found to exists, with quantitative agreement in the case of several simple transitions. By analogy, the echo behavior for elliptically polarized input pulses is suggested."
"A potassium-mercury lamp in a sapphire envelope was constructed. Under the proper conditions of pressure and temperature the potassium resonance lines radiate efficiently at the infrared absorption lines of Nd3+in YAG. Spectral tests indicate that a threefold improvement in pumping efficiency should be obtained compared with a tungsten filament lamp. CW room-temperature laser tests result in an output of 10 watts for an input of 420 watts for a 2.4 percent overall efficiency. This compares with a 1 percent overall efficiency for the tungsten filament lamp."
"Details of experimental results on higher order phase-locking phenomena of a He-Ne laser with a fixed cavity length and a fixed position of the laser tube in the cavity are presented. Two methods have been used in the experiments in order to obtain high bit-rate optical pulses. In one method modified Michelson-type resonators and a three-mirror Fabry-Perot resonator are utilized to suppress the oscillation of the undesired modes. Optical pulses of repetition rates up to about 600 megabits/s have been obtained. The second method utilizes an internal phase perturbation in a conventional Fabry-Perot cavity at a frequency nearly equal to a multiple of the longitudinal mode spacing. The repetition rate of optical pulses generated does not always coincide with the modulation frequency, but depends on the fine tuning of the frequency. In contrast to the former method, mode quenching is not necessarily required to produce multiple-bit pulses."
"A GaAs dual-diode laser structure was used to give electrical control of the laser threshold and so permit separate study of the effect of optical flux on gradual degradation. At a given current density, degradation occurs under nonlasing conditions at about the same rate as under normal lasing conditions. The degradation rate is a superlinear function of current density. Degradation is an erratic process in which the rate varies sporadically during operation."
"Spectral data for argon, krypton, xenon, and neon flashlamps are presented for the region of lamp operation in which the line radiation makes up a substantial portion of the total radiant energy. The spectral charateristics are presented in terms of both power flux and emitted quanta per unit area per second, the latter being appropriate for the characterization of illumination and laser pumping efficiencies. The emission spectra show strong line radiation peculiar to each gas superimposed on a low emissivity background continuum. The electrical resistance coefficientk (\\in \\Omega.A^{1/2})is presented for each gas and is shown to increase with increasing gas atomic weight and pressure. An analysis of lamp radiative efficiency indicates that through proper optimization of the gas pressure, the efficiency and overall output of the lighter rare gases will be comparable to those for optimized xenon lamps with optimum pressures increasing with decreasing gas atomic weight. Overall lamp efficiencies are shown to be as high as 40 percent in the0.4-1.1-\\muregion."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A steady-state solution describing\\Pi-pulse propagation in a homogeneously broadened laser amplifier embedded in a dispersive lossy host is found. For a given model of dispersion, the solution satisfies exactly the second-order wave equation together with the equations of motion for the density matrix of the two-level resonant system. The salient feature of the solution is that a small amount of dispersion in the host group velocity causes a large monotonic frequency sweep during the pulse. The effects of this chirp on the pulse properties are described in detail, and the relation of the theory to experiments is discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"A comparison of rare-gas flashlamps for pumping YAG: Nd3+and neodymium-doped glass, which shows krypton lamps to be superior to xenon under certain circumstances, is presented. The emission spectra of argon have the best match to the neodymium absorption spectra, but argon lamps suffer from low radiative efficiency except at very high pressures. A detailed analysis of theoretical laser thresholds, which takes into account pump-pulse duration, cavity transfer coefficient, laser rod diameter, lamp emission spectra, and other pertinent parameters, is compared to experimental threshold data with good agreement. Krypton at 500-mm pressure gives a 19-percent improvement in the YAG : Nd3+threshold over a comparable xenon lamp at low current densities. Xenon is generally superior to krypton for pumping glass rods because of the greater absorption at 5900 Å where xenon is intrinsically a better radiator. However, proper lamp optimization shows a definite improvement in threshold with krypton at low drive levels. Xenon is anticipated to be superior to krypton at high current densities since line radiation will no longer contribute significantly to the pumping process. Proper optimization of lamp and cavity parameters should permit a slope efficiency of ∼6 percent for neodymium lasers to be realized."
"A very high gain amplifier has been developed by arranging for many amplifying passes to be made through one system. Input pulses of millijoule energy have been amplified to the damage limit of the materials (∼10 J/cm2) by this method. One such system can replace several when amplification of low-energy pulses is required."
"An experimental investigation of the CW gain characteristics at 337 μ of several HCN laser systems was carried out. The gain is reported as a function of pressure, current, gas mixture, and flow rate. In addition, the radial distribution was determined and the gain was found to be independent of radius for all mixtures measured."
"Thermal picosecond light scattering involving the amplification of weak beams interfering with a strong beam in absorbing liquid media provides a mechanism for amplifying the contrast of weak optical images."
"A quasi-continuous organic dye laser pumped with the second harmonic of a repetitivelyQ-switched ruby laser is reported."
"It is known that there exist two solutions for the He-Ne laser phase locked by synchronous internal phase modulation. One corresponds to a phase difference between adjacent modes of even integers of π (even state) and the other to odd integers of π (odd state). Although their frequency power spectra in general look similar, they appear in the time response as two different sets of pulse trains 180° out of phase with respect to each other. Of the two, for a given set of conditions, it has not yet been possible to predict which state will oscillate. In our observations we find that, if the modulation frequency is fixed slightly higher than the average axial-mode spacing near the line center, the two states can be controlled by varying the amplitude of the modulation signal, resulting in a switching action between the two states. Furthermore, we find that in a narrow region of \"detuning\" and in a small range of modulation amplitudes, both states oscillate simultaneously. The above results were analyzed by considering the asymmetry in the frequency characteristics of the gain medium due to the presence of the isotope Ne22in the He-Ne mixture. Based on this fact and the concept of \"supermode\" competition, we give a physical explanation for the observed behaviors. This is supported by the absence of amplitude-dependent switching in a He-Ne tube containing only pure isotope Ne20. We observe also in a He-Ne tube containing 75% Ne20and 25% Ne22the dominance of one state over the other; this result is consistent with the qualitative theory given."
"A simple analysis of the self-focusing of a short pulse shows that the distance at which the focal region first appears exceeds the minimum focusing distance Zfby an amount dependent upon the initial pulsewidth. This focal region subsequently expands as it moves down the medium, the limiting width being the width of the portion of the pulse above the critical power."
"Coupled amplitude equations are derived to describe the interaction of three light waves propagating in a nonlinear dielectric waveguide. The coupling coefficients reflect the combined effect of the nonlinear susceptibility and the finite geometry."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Filamentary and other nonuniform emission characteristics have been observed from electron-beam-pumped dislocation-free GaAs lasers. X-ray topographs taken before and after bombardment showed relatively few dislocations present in the as-grown material and no dislocation introduced at the power levels used for electron-beam excitation."
"AQ-switched pulsed discharge CO2laser is investigated and the dependence of peak power on delay between pulse excitation andQswitching is determined for different gas mixtures. Peak power of 5 kW with 13 percent efficiency is obtained."
"The Brillouin linewidth at acoustic frequencies of several 109Hz was measured for CS2CCl4acetone, and C6H6. Experimental data were compared with values calculated from the theory of sound propagation under the assumption of a single relaxation frequency. Good agreement was found for the pure liquids except for C6H6. Extending a theory of binary mixtures from ultrasonic to hypersonic frequencies, we were able to account for the experimentally determined Brillouin linewidths in the mixed system CS2-CCl4."
"In previous publications, a double acceptor trapping model was proposed to account for the characteristics ofQswitching and stimulated emission time delays in pulsed junction lasers. In this paper, a detailed time-dependent mathematical development of the model is presented including heating effects. The equations so obtained will form the basis for comparison with experimental results in Part II."
"Using a detection system with 150-ps resolution, a spiking behavior has been detected in theQ-switched light output from GaAs junction lasers. At the lower currents in theQ-switching region, a single light spike, whose width is about 300 ps, is observed. At higher currents, additional light spikes appear whose widths and spacings decrease as the current is increased. At the highest pumping levels, only the initial spike is clearly resolved and its width has decreased to less than 200 ps. Qualitative agreement is obtained from a simple theory based on the standard rate equations. The necessary modifications to the theory are discussed and results of computer calculations are presented which predict that the width of the initial spike can be much less than 100 ps at sufficiently high pumping levels."
"A pulsed excitation was used to study high peak power generation in CO2and CO2-mixture flowing gas lasers. A rotating mirror was used as aQswitch with a variable delay between excitation pulse and mirror alignment. A variation of the time delay and multiple-exposure photographs can permit a measure of the population inversion versus time to be photographed. High-voltage pulses were used with higher than usual gas pressures to generate peak powers of about 30 kW. Peak power was shown to be primarily dependent on CO2partial pressure in CO2-He and CO2-N2mixtures."
"Using suitable approximations, the theory developed in a previous paper (Part I) forms the basis for the digital computer calculations presented in this paper (Part II). These calculations predict 1) the stimulated emission time delay for any value of the injection current amplitude and heat-sink temperature, 2) the temperature and current regions whereQswitching is possible, and 3) the large differences in delay andQ-switching behavior caused by different impurity profiles across the junction due to variations in fabrication. Computer-generated theoretical curves are in good agreement with both the previously known experimental data and the results, to be presented, of new experiments suggested by the theory."
"The temporal behavior of emission, the time-integrated spectral output, and the far-field pattern of a ruby laser have been studied as influenced by the mechanical vibrations of one of the resonator mirrors. It is shown that regular spiking with exponential decay will exist over a wide range of pump power if the following three conditions exist simultaneously: 1) one mirror is slightly tilted, or a lens or a diffusing element is inserted within the cavity; 2) radiation is retained in the resonator by use of a nearly optically closed cavity; and 3) one reflector is vibrating. In this case, the spectral output consists not of sharp lines, but of a few broad bands. Consequently, oscillation in closely spaced transverse modes is produced by the vibrating mirror. If one of the above conditions is not fulfilled, irregular spiking occurs and the spectral output contains sharp lines whose frequencies are multiples of the axial mode spacing and whose number depends directly upon the pump power. Regular spiking permits an experimental test of theoretical models. The plot of the decay time of the regular spiking envelope versus normalized pump power has ascending and descending branches and is in excellent agreement with the expanded Statz-de Mars theory, which takes into account a large mode number and the influence of spontaneous emission. Parameter of the family of curves is the ratio : number of existing resonator modes to total number of possible modes (for the same bandwidth) that is approximately equal to the solid angle of laser radiation divided by the solid angle 4 π. Finally, the experimental values for the period of the spike train agree so well with theory that they can be used to determine the total mode number and the Einstein coefficientB."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Experiments have been conducted with a CO2laser amplifier and various mixtures of the active gas media. It has been found that there is a decrease in the current through the amplifier concurrent with transmission of the incident laser beam. A correlation exists with the gain of the amplifier and decrease in current. A possible mechanism is suggested."
"A highly polarized laser output has been achieved in the far infrared by using a grating in the laser. The degree of polarization is given for water-vapor lines at 47, 119, and 220 μ. This method has distinct advantages that make it especially attractive in the far infrared."
"Picosecond pulses with a single transverse-mode operation have been obtained in a mode-locked ruby laser by using a special rooftop prism cavity. Addition of rhodamine 6G to the dye (DDI in methanol) enabled us to obtain consistently pulses as short as 5 ps."
"A gaseous absorption cell variable attenuator for 10.6-μ-wavelength radiation, which uses forced convection to eliminate thermal defocusing effects, is described. The device is capable of attenuating high-intensity CO2laser radiation with negligible distortion, and results are shown for an experimental model used at an intensity level of 100 W/cm2."
"A new method for locking the longitudinal modes of a laser resonator and generating ultrashort pulses of light is described. The cavity modes are coupled together when a medium with a refractive index nonlinearity is placed in the cavity. A theoretical study is presented which analyzes the mode structure of a laser resonator containing a cell filled with an anisotropic molecular liquid. It is found that under certain conditions the energy exchange between the modes gives rise to a mode-locked spectrum and to the attendant generation of ultrashort pulses of light (\\sim 10^{-11}second for a ruby laser, 10-12second for a Nd3+: glass laser)."
"Experiments on the pulsed mercury-helium laser have revealed a new line at 7418 Å. The laser was examined specifically with regard to operation at 7945 Å, and it was found that the optimum He pressure is 30 torr. The high optimum pressure implies that collision mixing helps to populate the upper state."
"The hyperfine transitions of atoms in the ground state are split when RF fields, whose frequencies correspond to the energy differences between the Zeeman sublevels, are applied. It is shown that the measurement of the intensities of these lines provides a very good determination of the populations of the different states. The calculation is made in the two extreme conditions of adiabatic or sudden application of the RE perturbation. The triplet splitting of the\\Deltam = 0transition of a hydrogen maser used as an amplifier is studied experimentally under the sudden passage condition and this method is used to measure the efficiency of a state selector that improves the atomic beam composition of a H maser."
"Experimental measurements of the dispersive phase shift at 6328 and 6401 Å due to neon1s_{5}metastables in a He-Ne discharge are described. These measurements confirm the hypothesis of Arrathoon and Siegman that1s_{5}metastables are responsible for the observed current dependence of the oscillation frequency of a 6328-Å He-Ne laser."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"This paper describes various types of electron emitters that have been tested under conditions of interest in gas laser operations. In general, where \"nonreactive\" gases are used, some form of the BaSrO cathode will meet many requirements. Several matrix structures containing BaSrO are described that will stand up better under adverse conditions (ion bombardment, envelope poisoning) than the conventional sprayed cathode. Several hot hollow cathodes for use at high (15-100 amperes) currents were studied and are discussed. With reactive gases, such as O2, CO2, H2O, a BaZrO3cathode has been found to be very useful. This cathode is unique in that it emits better in an oxidizing atmosphere than it does in either an inert gas or vacuum."
"Stimulated and enhanced two-photon emissions from excited states in potassium have been observed. This emission is primed by stimulated electronic Raman radiation generated by scattering of a giant pulse ruby radiation. Four-photon parametric processes also take place. The two processes can be distinguished by tuning the laser frequency. Most of the emitted radiations are plane-polarized. A pumping model is proposed explaining the required population inversions and the polarization properties of the radiations."
"It is shown that in the case of a dry 1.5-torr CO2gas fill the upper laser level is indirectly excited by vibrationally excited CO produced during the discharge, whereas in the case of a 1.5-torr CO2and 0.2-torr H2O mixture the upper laser level is directly excited by the electrons in the discharge. The collision relaxation times measured under laser conditions for the symmetric valence vibration of CO2in a CO2-H2O mixture and in a CO2-CO mixture as produced during a discharge of an initially pure CO2fill were 19 and 73 μs, respectively. If the reasonable assumption was taken that half of the CO2was dissociated into CO then this result shows that H2O was 14 times more effective in depopulating the lower laser level than CO. The growth in laser intensity for the dry fill was shown to be due to the CO (\\nu = 1) transfer of energy to the asymmetric vibration of CO2(00°1) with a characteristic increase that was exponential strictly only for a time short compared with the relaxation time of the symmetric vibration. The characteristic transfer time for excitation of the asymmetric vibration was dependent upon the fraction of CO present. If we make the assumption of 50 percent dissociation, the intermolecular energy transfer time between CO and CO2was found to be 40 torr-μs. Results obtained with N2and He added to the laser mixture indicated that He was not more effective in relaxing the lower laser level than N2or CO and was less effective than H2O."
"The theory of the diffraction grating pair is developed by expanding the frequency dependence of the phase shift as far as the quadratic frequency term. The analogy between pulse compression and Fresnel diffraction is treated. The effect of the cubic phase term is discussed for ultrashort pulses having appreciable fractional bandwidth."
"Continuous laser operation has been obtained on five unclassified lines in ionized xenon. The behavior of these lines with discharge parameters and the lack of correlation with known Xe III lines using the method of laser-induced perturbation spectroscopy suggests strongly these lines originate from Xe IV."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper will present a review of the state-of-the-art in semiconductor P/N junction lasers, with emphasis on devices emitting in the near-infrared and visible portion of the spectrum."
"The generation of second-harmonic radiation in a non-linear dielectric by an arbitrary broad-band optical signal is analyzed and application of the theory is made to harmonic generation by a short pulse. The spectrum and time dependence of the harmonic radiation is calculated in terms of the corresponding quantities for the fundamental pulse. Several types of pulses, including a frequency-swept pulse, are treated. Experimental results on the second-harmonic spectrum are presented and compared with the theory, as are previously reported results on the time dependence."
"Experimental studies of a rotating-mirrorQ-switched CO2laser have been undertaken to obtain high peak powers at 10.6-μ wavelength. TheQ-switched pulse has a temporal structure consisting of two intensity peaks and is similar to the temporal behavior of a slowQ-switched CO2laser. Based on the gas pressure dependence it appears that the pulse structure and duration are influenced by collision-induced relaxations of the laser medium. Using an oscillator-amplifier system peak powers of 120 kW with pulsewidths of 200 ns have been obtained."
"We present an analysis of the steady-state oscillation of a doubly resonant optical parametric oscillator in which there are no power-dependent reflections of pump power from the oscillator cavity. There is no limiting of the pump power passing through such an oscillator and 100-percent conversion efficiency is obtained for pumping four times threshold. Previous experiments are discussed in light of these results."
"Previous work on the resonant modes of GaAs junction lasers operating near threshold is extended to include spectra obtained at currents 1.5 to 3 times the threshold level. At these currents, two families of modes are shown to oscillate simultaneously with different center frequencies. The modal families are demonstrated to correspond to different mode numbers in the direction perpendicular to the junction plane. These observations are found to be in agreement with a previously reported theory for the GaAs laser cavity, which allows a dielectric constant variation in both directions transverse to the laser axis. The general characteristics of the observed spectra are explained qualitatively in terms of a derived mode dependence of the steady-state gain function. It is suggested that the strong frequency dependence of the spatial gain distribution perpendicular to the junction plane can allow two modal families with different mode numbers perpendicular to the junction to oscillate simultaneously with different center frequencies."
"Summary form only, as given. Intense bursts of light with a peak power of 10 MW have been obtained reproducibly by electron pumping of semiconductor materials such as CdS. Semiconductor lasers have several advantages: high output from small volumes, fairly high conversion efficiencies, possibility of direct electron pumping, and arbitrary choice of wavelength by selection of proper compound or alloy. Their use in such applications as flash photography has been limited previously by the relatively low output of junction diodes on one hand, and limited pumping capabilities of hand, and limited pumping capabilities of conventional electron beam sources on the other. "
"Continuous-wave unsaturated gain characteristics of the 890-GHz HCN laser line have been measured versus current for various flowing mixtures of CH3CN and H2O."
"The effect of rotational-vibrational relaxation and molecular diffusion on the saturation parameter of the CO2laser is investigated experimentally. A summary is presented of how the theory of a two-level system can be extended to a multilevel laser system like the CO2laser. Published experimental results for the rate of relaxation of the upper levels are such as to suggest that diffusion effects can play an important role in laser beams with radii of less than a few millimeters. For experimental verification of the diffusion hypothesis, the gain of a sealed CO2amplifier is measured as a function of input power for four different beam radii. The equivalent saturation parameter derived from these measurements decreases monotonically from 97 to 25 W/cm2as the average input beam radius increases from 0.9 to 2.5 mm in the 9-mm-radius discharge tube of the amplifier."
"In the high-current-density discharges characteristic of gaseous ion lasers, charged particle losses to the discharge tube walls account for an estimated 80 percent of the total losses, and are a major source of material problems. Attempts to reduce these wall losses drastically by magnetic confinement in dc lasers are limited by increased ion drift and gas pumping effects. These effects occur in dc discharges, and are accentuated when wall losses are greatly reduced. Because of the alternating nature of the discharge, these effects are absent in the inductively coupled RF-excited toroidal argon laser described here, where a strong axial magnetic field confines the high-current-density discharge between widely spaced graphite apertures. This scheme seeks to reduce wall losses to a significantly greater extent than can be usefully done with a similar dc discharge."
"We report here the first observation of the central tuning dip (Lamb dip) on individual rotation-vibration transitions of the N2O-N2molecular laser as well as observation of the effect in the CO2-N2laser. We also demonstrate that a frequency discriminator can be generated from the tuning dip that is much sharper than one obtained from a similar laser operating at higher pressure."
"Matching of GaAs lasers to the 8521-Å cesium line is reported here for the first time. The GaAs laser is frequency-modulated so that it operates as an \"optical sweep generator\" whose sweep rate can be adjusted. The sweep generator feature of the GaAs laser permits the use of oscilloscope display of the line shape. The present work represents a unique method with which the Doppler linewidth measurements of2p_{3/2}of Cs 133 have been made. Typical linewidths of 600 MHz are reported for Cs at room temperature. In addition, the effect of radiation trapping in the flourescence is investigated for different cesium atom densities. Thereby an estimated value for the radiation lifetime of2p_{3/2}of Cs is found by means of decay experiment."
"If a 3-kHz bandwidth is assumed for voice communication by PCM, and a 16-level (4 bit) quantization for an intelligible pulse code format, the gas laser must be capable of a minimum pulse rate of 30 kHz. To attain such a high pulse rate, it is necessa.ry to reduce the pulse width while increasing the repetition rate. An argon gas laser was built with the capability of changing the pulse width, the peak input current and the argon gas pressure. The various laser parameters were measured and studied to determine the optimum conditions for a PCM laser system. The five strong argon lines of 5145, 5017, 4965, 4880, and 4765 radiated from a confocal cavity using an air-cooled fused quartz tube whose active length is 14.5 inches. The gas was ionized with a 6-kV pulse applied to a coil of wire wrapped around the quartz tube. Both ends of the tube were connected to a gas reservoir to reduce gas pumping problems. A hot cathode with a capacitor at the anode provided the pulsed current to excite the plasma."
"When an electrostatic field induces net acoustic gain in a piezoelectric semiconductor, the threshold for stimulated Brillouin scattering decreases exponentially with acoustic gain. The threshold can be lowest for acoustic waves in the field direction, resulting in control over the direction of stimulated Brillouin scattering."
"Note: This session has been reserved for post-deadline papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Four new organic dyes belonging to the xanthene and coumarin groups are reported to lase flashlamp-pumped. The lasing bands, solvents, and pH factor of these four (pyronin B, rhodamine S, 9-aminoacridine hydrochloride, and benzyl β methylumbelliferone) are tabulated."
"Certain properties of the modified circuit matrix useful in the analysis and synthesis ofn-port networks are outlined. A sufficient condition based on the modified circuit matrix is given for the proper pseudoseries connection ofn-port networks. The usefulness of the concept of the modified circuit matrix in the synthesis of networks is demonstrated by giving a new approach to the realization of two-element-kind two-port networks."
"An analysis is given for a distributedRCnetwork that consists of a resistive layer separated by an insulator from three separate electrodes. A conducting tab is placed completely across two opposing ends of the resistive layer. These tabs form two terminals of a five-terminal network. The three electrodes form the other terminals. The short-circuit admittance parameters for this network are derived and consideration is given to special interconnections. The short-circuit transfer admittances between an electrode and either end of the resistive layer may easily be made rational. An interconnection provides the possibility of a rational short-circuit transfer admittance that does not possess a zero at the origin. The method can be extended to similar multi-electrode networks."
"A small-signal analysis of a type of active transmission line is presented. This line is in the form of a ladder network having positive resistance in the series branches and voltage-stable negativeconductance devices in the shunt branches. The product of total series resistance(R)and total shunt conductance(G)is shown to be a parameter that describes the transfer properties of lines containing any number of identical sections. A simple stability criterion is presented, and some aspects of input matching and available power gain are discussed. Experimental models have been constructed, whose characteristics support the principal predictions of theory."
"The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relative effects of terminating impedances on the low-pass voltage transfer characteristics ofRClines. Four general shapes of these lines,with constantr(x)c(x)product along the line, are included in the investigation. Previous studies of the open-circuit performance of networks from these four general shapes provide a basis for continued investigations of their characteristics with terminations limited to parallel combinations of a resistance and a capacitance. The investigation shows that in order to reduce the effect of the load admittance on the open-circuit characteristic, the line should be shaped such that its resistance at the output end is as low as practicable."
"The state-space characterization of a linear timeinvariant system can be viewed in terms of a general multiple-loop feedback configuration. The return difference matrix and the null return difference matrix with respect to theAmatrix are derived and related to the poles and zeros of the transfer function. A useful formula for sensitivity of the transfer function with respect to an element of theAmatrix is also obtained."
"This paper deals with the state-variable analysis of the most general class of lumped time-invariantRLCnetworks. The hybrid descriptions of coupled elements are discussed in connection with the mixed analysis of networks. Sufficient conditions for the uniqueness of solutions of coupled resistor networks andRLCnetworks are given in terms of hybrid descriptions. The set of state variables are taken so that the order of state equations coincides with the number of finite natural frequencies in the linear case. A simple method for determining such a set of state variables by means of two particular trees,C-normal tree andL- normal tree, is also presented. The standard form of state equations are represented by means of a signal flow graph."
"A vector space formulation of a ladder network synthesis problem is given and algorithms for the solution are obtained, which provide a concise and flexible synthesis method. Specifically, the problem of realizing a specified reflection coefficient with aRLCladder network is treated as a matrix synthesis problem. The matrix to be synthesized is both tridiagonal and cyclic, properties that are utilized to obtain a solution and relate it to the synthesis procedures employing continued fraction expansions. The solution is effected by tridiagonalization of a pair of matrices, a procedure observed to be a vector space analog of the Euclidean algorithm. Algorithms are given, which permit the user to specify the representation of the vectors that are formed recursively during tridiagonalization. This capability, in effect, permits the polynomials that are formed in continued fraction expansions to be represented as linear combinations of various sets of polynomials, such as the Lagrange interpolation polynomials. Experiments are described, which illustrate the advantages of the new algorithms that allow the representation to be specified."
"The synthesis of simultaneously prescribed drivingpoint and transfer admittances for distributedRCnetworks without transformers is considered. Realizations with common ground connections are required. The realizations given, in general, involve an arbitrary multiplying constant for the transfer admittance and are valid except when the prescribed transmission zeros,t = \\tanh \\sqrt{p} = \\delta_{0} + j \\omega_{0}are such that\\omega_{0}^{2}<\\delta_{0}^{2}<1 + \\omega_{0}^{2}. If only the short-circuit transfer admittancey_{12}or the open-circuit voltage transfer ratioT_{12}is specified, a realization using surplus factors is given valid for all transmission zeros other than real zeros less than unity, which can never be realized by an unbalanced commensurate distributedRCnetwork, and that for such networks, zeros of transmission where\\delta_{0}^{2} >\\omega_{0}^{2} + (\\delta_{0}^{2} + \\omega_{0}^{2})^{2}always require the use of surplus factors. Examples of the various synthesis procedures are given."
"The synthesis of a broad class of tapered distributedRCG \\overline{(RCG)}networks, which include uniform\\overline{(URCG)}, exponential\\overline{(ERCG)}, hyperbolic cosine-squared\\overline{(HCRCG)}, hyperbolic sine-squared\\overline{(HSRCG)}, trigonometric\\overline{(TRCG)}, and square\\overline{(SRCG)}tapered networks, is investigated. The necessary and sufficient realizability conditions are presented. It is shown that by using some suitable transformations, this class of networks may be obtained from any of the known lumped passive or activeRCsynthesis methods. A complete synthesis procedure is given. Relations among sensitivity functions of this class of networks are presented. The stability conditions of this class of networks are discussed. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the\\overline{URC}network are presented and proven. It is demonstrated that those for other members of this class of networks may be obtained in a similar way."
"Applying the method of change of variable to the differential equation governing nonuniform transmission lines (NUTL's), an equivalence principle for NUTL's is given, which may be considered as a generalization of the one previously described by Hellstrom [1] and which includes three methods of equivalent transformation for NUTL's."
"A new algorithm is presented for finding all of the descendants of each node of an arbitrary directed linear graph. The validity of the algorithm is established and it is compared with a previously known algorithm and found to be faster for at least one class of implementations."
"The effects of grid loading on the gain and phase-shift characteristics of staggered distributed amplifiers using constant-kandm-derived constant-kLClow-pass filter sections are discussed. It is shown that if the attenuation in the grid line due to grid loading is substantial, the staggering of the lines in general will not much improve the gain characteristics of the amplifier."
"In this paper, the design of physically realizable rational fuction transmitting or receiving filters for use in pulse transmission systems operating in the presence of Gaussian noise and intersymbol interference is explored. For the design, the three iteria considered are 1) mean-square error (MSE), 2) error probability, and 3) a weighted sum of the squares of the signal-to-noise ratios corresponding to all possible received signal patterns (MSSN). Expressions are obtained for the various error criteria in terms of the transnmission system poles and residues (coefficients of a partial fraction expansion), assuming that the transmitting and receiving filters and the transmission medium are given by physically realizable rational function forms. It is shown that optimization of the MSE criterion under a received signal amplitude constraint with respect to the receiving filter residues, for a fixed set of poles, leads to a set of linear equations readily solvable for the optimal residues. A suboptimal technique is used to specify \"reasonable\" pole values, thereby the poles are constrained to belong to some \"standard\" set of all-pole transmission functions, as for example, maximally flat delay or maximally flat magnitude. The bandwidth of the given pole configuration is determined to optimize the given error criterion. Numemical examples are presented to illustrate the filter design techniques developed. The results indicate that, in many cases, filter design under the MSE or MSSN error criteria leads to optimal or near optimal design under an error-probability criterion. A brief discussion is also given of the filter sensitivity to parameter variations."
"A guide to the use of rational multipole contoured distributed networks with non-normalized parameters in active and passive transfer function synthesis is presented. For realization, the number of simultaneous equations to be solved must equal the number of variables available; where it is in excess, a method of introducing auxiliary components is demonstrated. Finally, the application of these techniques to the formation of elliptic transfer functions with both single- and double-contoured single-pole networks is demonstrated."
"Ozaki's method of synthesis ofRCtwo-ports is extended in two cases. First,Y_{12}is supposed to be minimum phase and the residues of the other transfer admittances to be positive. A new sufficient condition for the synthesis is indicated. Second, the minimum phase condition is removed. Here again, a new sufficient condition is found."
"A unified treatment is given to the problem of identifying real rational transfer functions, with prescribed poles that maximize certain functionals occurring in matched filter synthesis. Both continuous and sampled data representations are considered."
"A new modification of passive network topological formulas is given, which makes it possible to use a single treefinding program to calculate the network functions. The modified formulas require the calculation of fewer sets of two-trees than a previous method."
"Simple and composite lines have been defined for nonuniform transmission lines and their various configurations considered. The concept of duality has been extended to composite lines and their different configurations, and two theorems concerning these lines have been established. A procedure for realizing certain classes of irrational functions as driving-point functions has been presented using simple or compositeRClines and their duals. This includes the existing procedures for uniform and exponential lines."
"Sensitivity limitations in the realization of Yanagisawa active filters with distributed parameter networks of the Heizer single-pole type are discussed. It is demonstrated that such filters cannot be realized in thin-film form with adequately low sensitivity using the available technology."
"This method uses basis polynomials drawn fromRCnetworks to decompose desired transfer functions. The active elements employed are a single common isolation amplifier or operational amplifier. The method requires no factoring in the synthesis procedure."
"The analytic expressions of the unit-impulse and the unit-step responses of distributed amplifiers using bridged-Tfilter sections with staggered lines have been derived. The equations have been computed by means of an IBM System 360 Model 44 digital computer. The graphic results are presented for two through ten sections per amplifier stage. These curves are normalized with respect to both amplitude and time, and may be applied to specific situations by rescaling the axes. Also, a comparison of the experimental data with the theoretical calculations shows that the results are fairly well matched."
"An iterative approximation procedure, used to yield equiripple delay and attenuation characteristics for a resistanceterminated passive, lossless two-port, is described."
"Bounds can be established on the realizable loads for bandpass gain functions, which include a single dc attenuation pole. A direct synthesis method for the realization of a prescribed load is presented. It relies on a generalization of the Norton transformation."
"It is shown that the familiar least-squares/Taylor technique may easily be generalized into a leastpth/Taylor method. The process is only slightly more complicated if p > 2; then the maximum error is smaller than forp = 2and the convergence often improves."
"The pole-zero frequencies and phase deviations of four-, six-, and eight-pole broad-band 90° phase-difference networks are derived by algebraic means. The results agree with those obtained by elliptic functions but lead to simpler computer solutions. AnRCdesign method based on a bridge circuit is developed. The conditions for minimum loss, maximum stability, and minimum number of circuit elements are stated for unterminated and terminated network pairs. Computer methods for obtaining network component values and circuit characteristics are described. A timesharing computer program is available for four-, six-, and eightpole networks and all frequency ranges."
"The representation of signals in the time domain requires the decomposition of functions of time into linear combinations of a finite number of basis functions. The purpose of this paper is to introduce a stochastic approximation algorithm, which, given an ensemble of signals\\{f(t)\\}, selects from a setSthat subsetS_{m}ofmbasis functions that best represents the elements of the ensemble. In this context the optimum representation is defined as the basis setS_{m}, which minimizes the expected value of a suitable performance indexQ, defined as a function of both the basisS_{m}and the random signalf(t). In particular,Qis here assumed to be the least-square error that may be achieved when the signalf(t)is approximated by a linear combination of the elements ofS_{m}. The procedure is analyzed in detail for the case when the basis functions are one-sided complex exponentials. The convergence properties of the algorithm are discussed for this case. An illustrative example of application of the proposed method is also presented."
"The problem of decomposing a network into different groups of electrical components, which are interconnected by the minimum number of leads, is discussed. For this purpose, minimal groups of components are defined as the ones fulfilling a chosen minimality criterion, and a number of their properties are illustrated. Some of these properties are directly employed in a procedure for the determination of all the minimal groups for a given network."
"The operation of converting a continued fraction into a rational transfer function of two polynomials is tedious. By the use of state-space techniques and Routh's algorithm, a new method is established for performing the continued fraction inversion."
"This paper presents necessary and sufficient conditions on an input impedance function, as a function of\\sin \\thetaand\\cos \\theta, for it to be realized as a cascade of equal-length transmission-line sections terminated in a resistance. The proofs are given in terms of the variable,\\cos \\theta, rather than the frequency variable of Richards,p = -j \\cos\\theta / \\sin\\theta. The method is direct, elementary, and applicable to the realization of the input impendance function of a lowpass ladder network of capacitances and inductances terminated in a resistance. Finally, necessary and sufficient conditions on the input reflection coefficient and then on the insertion-loss function, in terms of\\cos\\theta, are given for a cascade of equal-length transmission-line sections terminated in a resistance."
"A number of stability results for general systems of linear and nonlinear partial differential equations that describe distributed parameter networks and systems are obtained by means of Liapunov's direct method. Conditions for the asymptotic stability of the null solution of linear time-invariant distributed parameter systems are given. This result is then extended to a class of distributed parameter systems consisting of a linear system and a zero-memory nonlinear elment described by a set of Lurie-like partial differential equations. Bounded input-bounded output stability for the above two classes of systems is established by extension of a result of Goldwyn, Chao, and Chang for lumped parameter systems. Finally, it is shown how Malkin's theorem on the stability under persistent disturbances can be extended to provide a solution to the dynamic range problem for systems described by a general set of nonlinear partial differential equations."
"This correspondence presents a systematic method of obtaining the state equations for lumped linear bilateral electrical networks using energy-state functions and Lagrange's equation. By applying a specified set of holonomic constraint equations in addition to a Legendre transformation on a portion of the system energy-state function, modified Lagrangian and Rayleigh functions are formulated, which, when substituted into Lagrange's equation, yield equations of state with capacitor tree voltages and inductor link currents as state variables. An example is included to illustrate the procedure."
"The concepts of inverse and left inverse systems, weakly equivalent and strongly equivalent systems, and discretetime and finite memory systems are examined. Various relations between these concepts are found, and the role of the decomposition property of the system input-output state relation is investigated. Among the results obtained are 1) under suitable controllability assumptions, left inverse systems are inverse systems, 2) weakly equivalent finite memory systems with the decomposition property are strongly equivalent, and 3) finite-state systems with the decomposition property have finite memory."
"Exact conditions for the synchronization of the Oscillations of a linear resistancelessLC(t)circuit to a harmonic/subharmonic of the frequency of the capacitance variation are derived for the case of a periodically pulsed capacitance. It is shown that the magnitude of the largest undesired spectral component relative to that of the desired output is given by-A_{0}(N) + 20 \\log N_{\\pi \\nu} (dB), whereA_{0}(N)is determined by numerical computation for severalN, and\\nuis the fractional offset of the resonant frequency from the Nth harmonic of half the synchronization frequency."
"State equations such that the state vector is composed exclusively of currents in inductances and voltages across capacitances have been obtained in the past by topological methods. The same result as well as an extension thereof to general finite lumped constant linear systems can be achieved by algebraic methods. The only requirement is that these systems are well defined, i.e., such that they represent a meaningful model of an actual physical system."
"Algebraic relationships between trees, (ktrees) and circuits, co-trees (co-ktrees) and cutsets of a graph are presented. They may be considered as a generalization and an extension of Hakimi and Green's technique of enumerating trees andktrees. Algebraic relationships for generating trees and co-trees by elementary transformations are also given."
"This correspondence describes a method for finding a closed-form expression for the inverse of some Gram matrices that occur in least-square theory. The method is applicable if an analytic expression for an appropriate set of orthonormal functions can be found. In particular, the method provides a new derivation for the inverse of the generalized Hilbert matrix. An explicit formula is also given for a class of polynomials that is orthonormal over any finite interval with respect to the uniform weight function."
"The necessary and sufficient conditions thatZ^{-1} (s) = Cs + Gare found to be expressible in terms of conditions on the ranks of the residue matrices ofZ(s)."
"A special but nontrivial class of time-invariant systems is described, which is neither linear nor memoryless. This class of systems is characterized by the \"semiadditive\" property that the response to the sum of two nonoverlapping input time functions is equal to the sum of the responses to each input acting alone. These semiadditive systems are found to be amenable to characterization, analysis, and synthesis with a simplicity almost comparable to that of linear systems. In particular, it is shown that a semiadditive system is completely specified by an amplitude dependent step response function, a \"needle pulse\" response function of time and amplitude, or an amplitude dependent frequency response function. Explicit input-output relationships are presented, which include 1) an additivity integral that generalizes the superposition integral of linear systems, 2) a relation that yields the output spectrum directly from the input time function, and 3) a relation that yields the spectral density of the response to a stationary Gaussian input process directly from the autocorrelation function of the input. An analogy exists between semiadditive nonlinear systems and linear time-varying systems by interchanging the roles of amplitude and time."
"Existing procedures for the synthesis of an arbitrary rational function are extended to the case of time-variable networks via differential operator techniques. The procedures yield a realization of an arbitrary regular differential operator as a network of operational amplifiers and passive (time-variable)RCFoster forms, or alternatively as a network of operational amplifiers, constantRCcomponents, and time-variable controlled sources. The procedures require only that algebraic operations be carried out on the coefficients of the given differential operator: the differential equation is neither solved nor are any properties of its fundamental solutions assumed."
"Steady propagation on both the taperedRC \\pm GandRLC \\pm Gnonlinear transmission lines is investigated and the existence of various types of neuristor waveforms demonstrated. A generalization of the direct method of Liapunov for distributed parameter systems is employed to determine the stability of the possible steady waveforms. It is shown that the criterion for waveform stability on such active nonlinear transmission lines is simply that the derivative of the steady waveform represents the minimum eigenvalue solution of the linearized perturbation equation."
"A theory for two-port generalized interdigital networks is presented. Initially, after the definition of an arbitrary generalized interdigital network, properties of admittance scaling and transformations of general interdigital lines are formulated. The necessary and sufficient conditions are then presented for the individual realization of any admittance parameter of such a network. The results obtained in this section influence the choice of a compact set of sufficiency conditions for the realization of any arbitrary twoport admittance matrix by this class of networks. These sufficiency conditions are also shown to imply simple sufficiency conditions on the insertion-loss function of a resistively terminated, two-port generalized interdigital network."
"An analysis of \"modulation-rate\" distortion originating in frequency modulators is presented. The analysis is based on the solutions of the differential equations representing two fundamental classes of variable frequency oscillators. It is shown that the VFOs of one class produce ideal frequency modulation, while the VFOs of the other class inherently produce distortion. It is shown that this distortion is a function of the ratio of two rates, the rate of change of energy storage capacity and the rate of change of stored energy."
"A lumped linear time-invariant lossy network containing bounded periodic sources with periodTand one nonlinear element is considered. It is assumed that the first and second derivatives of the nonlinear function exist and are continuous within a certain allowable range of operation for the nonlinear element. The first derivative should be positive at the bias point, but this requirement can be waived in certain cases. An upper boundMon the magnitude of the input is determined such that for the magnitude of the input less thanMthere exists a unique steady-state solution of periodT. Experimental results indicate that even with the magnitude of the input less thanM, the steady-state solution may be unstable. Hence, a new boundM_{1}<Mis determined such that if the magnitude of the input is less thanM_{1}, then all transients asymptotically approach the periodic steady-state solution of periodT. In addition, an asymptotic stability to small perturbations in the input is considered. Examples and experimental results are given."
"It has been established that the adjoint network and network sensitivities play important roles in automated network design algorithms. The present paper derives a related adjoint network representation and sensitivity coefficients for networks containing a very broad class of elements: those that admit a parametric representation. A brief discussion is given as to how these results may be exploited in a general automated network design scheme."
"A pair of trees of a graph is said to be maximally distant if the distance between these trees is maximum in the graph. Necessary and sufficient conditions for maximally distant trees are presented. Fundamental properties of the maximally distant trees provide us with the principal partition of a graph that is uniquely determined for the graph. Some useful properties of the principal partition, together with the application to the classification of the trees, are discussed."
"Application of Tellegen's theorem to an originally specified network leads to a simple computation of the unnormalized sensitivity of any associated network function with respect to all pertinent network parameters in terms of analysis of it and its topologically equivalent adjoint network. The reinterpretation of this sensitivity to scalar indices of network performance provides an automated frequency-domain network design principle of far-reaching consquences. A computer program has been written to implement the design algorithm. Preliminary results show this program to be highly effective."
"An effective computational algorithm for the design of resistancen-port networks from givenn \\times nreal, symmetric admittance or impedance matrix specifications is derived and discussed. The computer program that results from this algorithm not only realizes realizable admittance or impedance matrices, but also usually indicates nonrealizability and always provides a \"best approximation\" in such situations."
"This paper introduces a design method that allows one to find easily an active distributedRCnetwork transfer function whose magnitude approximates the magnitude of a specified lumped low-pass transfer function. The resulting distributedRC(\\overline{RC})transfer function is a product of simple transfer functions rational inP = \\cosh \\sqrt{sRC}, each using a differentRCproduct. The overall transfer function is then realized as a cascade of the realizations of the simple transfer functions using a variety of available synthesis techniques. In addition, the characterization of a distributedRCtransfer function as a lumped transfer function times a delay factor, as presented herein, permits easy calculation of the transient response of the network. An example of the magnitude approximation is given together with the phase correction made by adding a delay term."
"This paper presents a method of characterizingn-port networks. It is shown that a large class of losslessn-ports can be characterized by sequences of step-up vectors, i.e., vectors that form successive incident voltages to the networks and are orthonormal at the same time. As a result, lossless networks can be classified into several classes. The most interesting one is, perhaps, the stepup class, which is shown to behave jointly like a unitary operator and a complete step-up operator on separate subspaces of the space ofL_{2}vectors."
"A basic nonreciprocal two-port component in the HF range is considered consisting of two spatially orthogonal coils wound on an indium antimonide slab. A dc magnetic field is impressed perpendicular to the axes of the coils. Local helicon mode theory, assuming a single type of carrier, is used to derive the frequency-dependent network matrix of the device. From this matrix a broadband equivalent circuit is synthesized, which contains one gyrator. The resultant network structure is then analyzed to arrive at a loss invariant or figure of merit for the nonreciprocal device and the invariant is found to be frequency independent. This loss invariant is used to calculate the minimum possible insertion loss of an isolator formed by imbedding the helicon mode element in the most general lossless reciprocal circuit. The minimum loss is shown to be Minimum insertion loss =10 \\log \\left( 1 + \\frac{1}{u^{2}} \\right) dB, whereuis the tangent of the Hall angle in the InSb slab. Two-port experimental measurements were made (using a low-frequency embodiment of a microwave directional coupler) over the frequency band 5-15 MHz to verify the equivalent circuit and the value of the invariant. These data provided reasonable verification of the equivalent circuit, the invariant, and the minimum loss figure. A circuit for a minimum insertion loss isolator was constructed, and at fields of 2600 and 5600 gauss the measured minimum insertion loss at room temperature was found to be 2.8 and 1.5 dB, respectively. This data compares with the theoretically predicted figures of 3.1 and 1.0 dB. These results are all under infinite isolation conditions. A derivation is given to show the optimum benefits to be obtained by trading reduced isolation for improved insertion loss. Finally, the theory of invariance is employed to derive expressions for the minimum insertion loss of a helicon mode gyrator and three-port circulator."
"A proliferation of exact closed-form solutions of the telegrapher's equationV_{xx} - Z_{x}Z^{-1}V_{x} - kZ Y V = 0for the voltageV(x)in anRCor lossless transmission line, with distributed series impedanceZ(x)and shunt admittanceY(x), respectively, have emerged in recent years. Generalizations of known solutions have been constructed, sometimes using ad hoc methods. A systematic method is described for deriving exact solutions in terms of standard transcendental functions, which yields far more general profiles forZ(x), Y(x), orZ(x)/ Y(x)than previously given. Examples of the procedure are given based upon Bessel's, Whittaker's, and the hypergeometric equation, and previously derived profiles emerge as special cases of the analysis."
"In this paper the work of Heizer is generalized to include arbitrary pole locations ofyparameters in the closed lefthalfsplane. Rational parameters of a distributedRCnetwork are developed from the distributed-source point of view. Conditions for the distributedRCnetwork to have rational parameters are obtained. Then, based on these conditions and assuming the desired poles of the circuit parameters, the unique class of capacitance cut functions that can support such poles has been found. Finally, rationalyparameters with real, imaginary, or complex poles are derived. A discussion on the physical construction of the network is also given."
"Synthesis of activeRCnetworks realized by two amplifiers is shown. The networks have zero sensitivity to changes of the amplifier gains, if changes in the gains are in the same direction and proportional to each gain, as actually occurs with normal amplifiers. Three types of networks are suggested and design equations derived. It is shown by theory and confirmed by experiment that even very large changes of the amplifier gains have little influence on the characteristics. Higher-order filters are realizable by this method. Because only amplifiers are used, the networks are adaptable for solid-state technology."
"Sufficient conditions are developed for the realizability of frequency-domain nonrational immittance functions. The networks consist of distributed and lumped elements (RCandRL) and have Foster-type topologies. The approach used is to classify functions by their singularities. The functions may have a discontinuity across a line on the negative real axis of the s plane. This class includes positive real branches of multivalued functions with branch points as their singularities. The theory utilizes properties of integrals with Cauchy-type kernels evaluated along the line of discontinuity. The functions could also have a countably infinite number of poles on the negative real axis. Mittag-Leffler's theorem gives representations for such functions, which yield Foster-type infinitelumped networks."
"The synthesis of the class of adjustable networks that respond or adapt to an independent (with respect to frequency) real variable, or several such independent real variables, and that respond as linear time-invariant networks for fixed values of these variables, is considered. Thus, for general networks in this class, the network functions (possibly after some frequency transformations) are real and rational in (possibly) several frequency variables, and the coefficients of the numerator and denominator polynomials in the several frequency variables are real functions of the real independent variables. An objection to most synthesis procedures for adjustable networks is that the adjustable elements used, whether passive or active, have had to be assumed to be highly versatile in their functional form. Practically, however, such adjustable elements may not exist. Also, synthesis procedures that use more than one type of adjustable elements for each independent real variable may result in a serious tracking problem. The synthesis methods developed here allow the designer 1) to choose a single type of adjustable building block for each independent real variable; 2) to maintain control of the functional complexity of these adjustable blocks; and 3) to use, in the single real variable case, only the absolute minimum number of such adjustable blocks."
"Sensitivity analysis of general nonlinear circuits is considered using the concepts of state space. It is shown that sensitivity functions may be obtained by calculating the responses of a dependent linear model, topologically equivalent to the original, with element values and driving functions determined by partial derivatives of the characteristics and responses of the original circuit components. The sensitivity parameter may be taken as explicit in any one of the circuit parameters. The solution of the sensitivity functions from the model involves basically the same program as is used to obtain the solution of the original circuit and both solutions may be generated simultaneously."
"Discrete sequential systems like the functional elements of a digital computer can be represented by directed graphs. In this paper we study an application of graph theory to computer diagnosis. Specifically, we develop the distinguishability criteria in directed graphs and derive bounds on the number of test points needed to locate faults in a sequential system."
"We consider the problem of designing a network which satisfies a prespecified survivability criterion with minimum cost. The survivability criterion demands that there be at leastr_{ij}node disjoint paths between nodesiandj, where(r_{ij})is a given redundancy requirement matrix. This design problem appears to be at least as difficult as the traveling salesman problem, and present techniques cannot provide a computationally feasible exact solution. A heuristic approach is described, based on recent work on the traveling salesman problem, which leads to a practical design method. Algorithms are described for generating starting networks, for producing local improvements in given networks, and for testing the redundancy of networks at each stage. This leads to networks which are locally optimum with respect to the given transformation. Randomizing the starting solution ensures that the solution space is widely sampled. Two theorems are given which allow great reduction in the amount of computation required to test the redundancy of a network. Finally, some design examples are given."
"The dc state vector is often the desired initial condition for the solution of a system of first-order differential equations that characterize network dynamics. A computer algorithm is described in this paper that computes the dc solution of first-order differential equations that characterize networks containing transistors, diodes, capacitors, inductors, resistors, and voltage sources with neither cut sets nor closed loops of either junctions, capacitors, or inductors. Networks containing current sources were not considered. The Newton-Raphson iteration function is the basis of the dc solution algorithm. The unique feature of the solution procedure is the use of upper bounds on the solution to avoid slow convergence and difficulties in computing exponential functions. Derivation of the upper solution bounds is discussed in detail."
"Discrete-time signals and digital filters have become increasingly important in recent years with the rapid advance of technology in integrated digital circuitry and the increasing availability of digital computers. This paper is concerned with a class of linear time-varying digital filters and the response of such filters with stochastic input signal. It is shown that these filters possess a number of useful properties; the most important of which is the preservation of wide-sense stationarity of stochastic inputs. Such properties can facilitate considerably the analysis of systems incorporating these filters. It is shown that this class is the most general class of time-varying filters that preserve the wide-sense stationarity of the inputs. A subclass of these filters is shown to be periodic and hence can be implemented simply by using parallel connection of time-invariant filters and a rotating switch. The response of these filters to periodic inputs is analyzed."
"A new characterization of the terminal behavior of linearn-port networks by means of an(n \\times n)matrixKis proposed. The conventional role of ports is preserved here only in looking on them as the sole input gates of the network, whereas any pair of terminals is admissible for output specifications. This new characterization is shown to be a convenient medium in analysis of a general linearn-port network. More important, in the case of a real matrixK, the paper provides an algorithm that either leads to a realization of a resistiven-port network complying with the given specification, or shows that such a realization does not exist."
"A synthesis method is presented that uses currentcontrolled current sources and capacitors to form integrators. These integrators are used in conjunction with voltage-controlled voltage sources and resistors to form current transfer networks closely resembling standard analog computer circuits. One feature of this approach is that the amplifier gain can have any finite nonzero value. The effects of nonideal amplifiers are considered and it is shown that input and output capacitances present no problem, first-order phase shift can be cancelled, and the sensitivity to output resistance can be minimized. The synthesis method realizes current transfer functions directly but voltage transfer networks and driving-point admittance networks can also be obtained. This method is extended to(N + 1)- terminal common-ground networks."
"A possible measure for estimating the sensitivity of a complex performance function of a system with respect to variations in a complex variable, including the case where the function is not differentiable, is presented by defining the magnitude of the relative change in the complex function divided by the magnitude of the relative change in the complex variable. If the performance function is differentiable in the complex variable, the present definition equals the absolute value of the conventional defining equation of sensitivity. The sensitivity of a real performance function to changes in a complex variable is obtained as the special case of the present definition. As the application of the present definition to the class of function for which the Cauchy-Riemann equations are not satisfied, the sensitivities of the power wave transfer ratio and the transducer power gain to variations in the terminating immittances and in each component of circuit parameters are obtained. Then, in order to evaluate graphically the changes in these maximum sensitivities due to those in the terminating immittances, various sensitivity charts that are the distribution maps of maximum sensitivities on the Smith chart or the power wave reflection coefficient plane are developed."
"This paper is concerned with techniques for the determination of all the critical frequencies (i.e., all the poles and zeros) of the transfer function of a linear time-invariant singleinput single-output system. Unlike methods involving the computation of polynomial coefficients, the techniques presented find the transfer zeros as the eigenvalues of a matrix obtained from the state and output equations of the system. A computational assessment is given with illustrative examples. In particular, the computation of actual bounds on the critical frequencies is discussed, and the application of these techniques to frequency analysis of networks is considered. Preliminary computer test results have confirmed that they require significantly less computation time and admit the possibility of detailed roundoff error analysis."
"Generation formulas are presented from which the sets of trees or co-trees in a cascade of arbitrary multiterminal networks that do not contain mutual couplings are given in terms of the ring sums or unions of the Cartesian products of the sets of subgraphs of the component networks. If the subgraphs of the component networks are given, the procedure will not generate any duplications, redundancies, or cancellations of terms. Illustrative examples are also given."
"A counter example is given to show that the conditions for a matrix to be realizable as the terminal-capacity matrix of a vertex-weighted communication net, which were given in 1962, are only necessary but not sufficient. Necessary and sufficient conditions for realizability are proposed and proved. Refinements in the description of a terminal-capacity matrix are presented and a new synthesis algorithm is introduced. Finally, conditions for special realizability classes of graphs are obtained as immediate consequences of the necessary and sufficient conditions."
"A state-space approach is used to derive an exact closed-form solution for the steady-state and transient response of a general commutated network terminated in a multiport. By expanding the time-varying transfer functionN(p, t)in a Fourier series, the transfer function at input frequencyN_{0}(p), and the transfer functions at harmonic frequenciesN_{m}(p)are then calculated. A necessary and sufficient condition for the recovery of the input signal, without distortion due to the harmonics, is given. From the general analysis, we immediately obtain previously available results on comb filters,n-path filters, sample-data filters, etc., as special cases. The resulting closed-form solutions in terms of element values are most suitable for computer simulation in which the performance of the commutated network is to be evaluated as the element values are varied."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"It is shown that some part of the mathematical derivation in the subject paper is incorrect and generally will give too high pull-in ranges. Results of a correct treatment of a third-order loop compare favorably with experimental results. The author of the subject paper, which appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-16, pp. 184-185, February 1968, replies."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The first sentence of the acknowledging footnote on page 252 should have read: \"This work was supported in part by NASA Grant NGR-33- 006-020 and in part by NSF Grants GP3112 and GK527. All of these grants were to the Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, N.Y.\" The original article appears in ibid., vol. COM-15, pp. 252-263, April 1967."
"The definition of the essential difference between transportation and communication is given with illustrations cited. The original paper appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology. vol. COM-16, pp. 195-198, April 1968."
"The principal cause of submarine telephone cable failures has been fishing activities on the continental shelf, particularly in the Western Atlantic area. The Bell System has conducted extensive investigation of methods of burying these cables in the affected area to eliminate this hazard. This has culminated in the development of a unique underwater plow which was used successfully in July 1967 to bury about 100 miles of cable on two transatlantic cables off the coast of New Jersey in water depths up to 100 fathoms and 40 miles of the 720-circuit Florida-St. Thomas cable. This paper covers the problems involved, the extensive exploration of the sea bottom, and the development of the sea plow. It also discusses the improvements that are expected in submarine cable reliability and the affect on selection of future submarine cable routes."
"It is proved that the random-variable coefficients of the orthonormal vector components of a Gaussian noise process converge to uncorrelated and identically distributed random variables as the power density spectrum of the process approaches a constant almost everywhere. An example is then given to suggest the rate of convergence and the ratio of noise bandwidth to signal bandwidth required for good approximation of the noise process by the white noise process."
"Solar induced ionization of waste water may create localized ionospheric clouds over lunar explorers. The clouds may be used as radio signal reflectors for point-to-point communication between locations beyond direct lines of sight."
"The performance of FM systems, particularly FDMFM, is often limited by the distortion of key components. Voltagecontrolled oscillators (VCOs), used both as modulators and demodulators, may be a major source of distortion. This paper presents a method for calculating the distortion in varicap tuned oscillators, with the effects of both series and shunt fixed capacitors included. General distortion coefficients are derived, using a Taylor series expansion for the oscillator tuning curve, which are a function of the oscillator resonant circuit only. These coefficients are then used in the computation of harmonic distortion for the sinusoidal modulation case and in the computation of noise power ratio (NPR) with Gaussian modulation. The latter is particularly useful in the design of FDM-FM systems. NPR is plotted as a function of deviation for flat FM, phase modulation, and International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) preemphasis characteristics."
"In certain digital communication systems data is coded into cyclic code words for error correction or detection. To safeguard certain aspects of the system, all the code words of a message may have the same identifying pattern in a group of digits. This increases the redundancy of the message. This paper proposes a method of doing this using little or no redundancy. The message identification (MI) would be contained in a code syndrome which is added to each code word (except the first) of the message. These syndromes are ones that are unused for error correction by the cyclic code. Simple decoding procedures can determine if code words of different messages have been interchanged in certain parts of the system. Random and burst error correction codes are examined to determine suitable syndromes."
"This paper derives an expression for root-mean-square (rms) interpolation error in a sampled data system employing lumpedparameter presampling and postsampling filters. The derivation for rms error employs basically a time-domain approach rather than the more usual frequency-domain approach. Plots of rms error versus sampling rate are given for first- through fourth-order Butterworth data using a Butterworth interpolation filter and no presampling filter. It is shown that using 100-percent duty cycle samples (rather than impulsive samples) can greatly improve the rms error."
"Wide deviation FM techniques employed in satellite communications require careful control of envelope delay distortion in the communications signal path to minimize phase distortion noise. This system impairment is more significant in satellite systems because of the high test tone deviations required. This paper highlights important characteristics of both terrestrial and satellite systems with emphasis on the latter. Methods for determining envelope delay coefficients and their conversion into picowatts of noise in frequency-division multiplexed (FDM) telephone channels and noise power ratio (NPR) amplitudes are included."
"This paper discusses maintenance considerations and field experience with the Bell System's No. 1 Electronic Switching System (No. 1 ESS). A brief introduction to the ESS includes a comparison with computers and a history of ESS development, which is followed by a discussion, in some technical depth, of particular areas of ESS maintenance design and practice. One example is the use of dictionaries to isolate equipment faults. The effectiveness of the dictionaries is also discussed. Performance data of several types are presented for the central offices already in service."
"A simple partitioned Markov chain model was proposed recently for characterization of the HF channel. The model is uniquely determined by the gap distribution. In this paper a method is derived to calculate the burst distribution from the model. The calculated result is compared with the burst distribution simulated from the actual error data collected from the HF communication link between Chicago and San Diego by IIT Research Institute for the Naval Electronics Laboratory Center. The model is also applied to a random channel and the result is compared with the simulation from the error sequence generated by a random number generator. In both cases there is a good agreement between the calculated and simulated results. It is illustrated that the model can be used for evaluating and designing the error detecting and correcting codes for the HF channel. The model is flexible as the number of states is not rigidly fixed hence it could be applied to a wide variety of HF channels. There is some indication that the model correlates to the multipath reduction factor (MRF). If verified it could add significance to the model since the maximum usable frequency (MUF) can be determined many months ahead by the available propagation prediction."
"The performance of digital phase-modulation systems has been investigated by many authors, and we first present a simple and alternate method of evaluating the character error rates ofm-phase coherent and differentially coherent phase-shift keyed (DCPSK) systems when the receiver is ideal. An ideal receiver is assumed to operate with zero-width decision thresholds, but in any practical receiver, the voltage (or current) in question must differ from the threshold value by a finite amount in order for the device to respond properly and reliably. This finite-width decision threshold for any practical receiver can be expressed in terms of a certain parameter γ, and we give methods of evaluating the character error rates of coherent phase-shift keyed (CPSK) and differentially coherent phase-shift keyed systems when the receiver has a finite nonzero γ. The receiver may also introduce a certain phase perturbation δ in the detected phase of the signal because of imperfections present in various parts of the receiver. The methods of evaluating its effect on both CPSK and DCPSK systems have also been given in this paper."
"The 416C Planar Triode has been designed to provide 5-watt broad-band RF output at 4.2 GHz. Emphasis is placed on low cathode temperature and beryllia envelope to reduce tube operating temperatures for long life."
"Comparison is made between one-way communication links using binary block codes and a similar link with decision feedback. The known reduction in word error probability is shown. Earlier papers consider only the encoding entropy rate. In this paper the equivocation and rate are computed for single-error detection and single-error correction double-error detection codes with and without feedback."
"Differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) has been proposed as a practical encoding scheme for speech, television, and telemetry signals. In this paper, the mean-square error for DPCM systems is derived, and its minimization by proper choice of system variables is examined. A simple analytical method is then presented for optimizing the system bandwidthW, the number of quantization bitsL, and the parameters of the DPCM feedback network when the input is a speech signal and channel noise is negligible. A method is then developed for measuring the subjective quality of voice communication systems as a function of an arbitrary number of system parameters. The method was used to measure the quality of PCM speech and DPCM speech as a function ofWandL. Quantization was logarithmic, the sampling ratef_{s} = 2.2W, and channel noise was assumed negligible. OptimumWandLwere found for every bit rateR = 2.2WL. For both PCM and DPCM, the equations relating the optimumWandLare of the formW = a2^{bL}, whereaandbare constants independent ofR. The maximum speech quality obtainable for PCM and DPCM was found as a function ofR, and the reduction in bit rate resulting when optimum DPCM rather than optimum PCM is used was determined as a function ofRand as a function of the speech quality. Included in the paper is a brief description of the realtime DPCM systems used in the research."
"This paper treats the human factor considerations involved in the Mod II PICTUREPHONE®set development to maximize customer safety and usage efficiency, to provide a functional circuit environment, and to produce a pleasing appearance design. The set was designed to accommodate 99 percent of the American adult population in environments having illuminations varying from 3 to 660 fL. Particular attention was given to the optical problems of juxtaposing video receiving and transmitting facilities. The design incorporates a number of new features including electronic zoom capability for changing the field of view, electronic height control, graphics mode capability, and a silicon target camera tube which is considerably more resistant to damage than previous tubes."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An assumption in the original paper is questioned by the correspondent, and a rearrangement is suggested to give a claimed more valid result. The author of the subject paper, which appeared in the IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 467-470, June 1967, replies. The correspondent then responds that both viewpoints are correct under differing special circumstances."
"This note complements some results of Lechleider on optimum nonlinear scalar systems for small additive noise and claims a possible error in the earlier work. The original paper appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 535-542, August 1967."
"The paper reviews the trend towards international standardization for data communication. It emphasizes the value of standardization, and it examines the way in which the standards will influence the development of future integrated digital networks."
"In data transmission over long-haul HF circuits, the signal is subjected to the vagaries of a turbulent ionospheric medium. To permit accurate performance predictions it is necessary to obtain a comprehensive channel description. This paper describes a program designed to achieve two goals. 1) To determine the feasibility of performing an experiment with sufficient accuracy to determine the time-variant medium transfer characteristic. 2) To obtain sample descriptions of these characteristics. The statistical medium descriptions obtained included first-order probability distribution functions of phase and amplitude and the secondorder time-frequency correlation functions. Records of the above medium descriptors obtained over a more extensive testing period will aid in the determination of optimum signaling techniques and in reliable data performance predictions."
"A new transmitter-receiver for use in 6-GHz microwave radio relay systems is described. Utilizing all solid-state devices except for the output amplifier (traveling-wave tube), the noise objective is 11,000 pW (psophometric) for a message load of 1800 circuits for a 4000-mile system. The system was designed to use many components and associated auxiliary systems in common with the new 4-GHz solid-state TD-3 system, to provide an integrated 4/6-GHz microwave radio facility. New techniques used in the design are microwave integrated circuits, microwave directional filters, microwave delay equalization, RF squelch, and unbalanced modulators. Some performance data on early models are given."
"A comparison is made of the statistical properties of energy density reception of mobile radio signals with those of multichannel predetection combining diversity reception using an array of whip antennas lined up transverse to the direction of motion. Theoretically, the energy density system is about as effective as a 3-channel diversity system in reducing fading. This conclusion was obtained from cumulative distribution function (cdf) curves, level crossing rate curves, and power spectra density function curves. Experimentally, the probability distribution curves show that the variation of the signal amplitude of a 4-channel diversity system is less than that of an energy density signal, but the fading rates of the two signals are almost the same. The experimental power spectra curves verify that the shape of the output spectrum for the diversity receiver is independent of the number of channels, but the level is reduced in magnitude with more channels. The output spectrum for the energy density system is more concentrated at lower frequencies than the diversity receiver."
"A family of pulse transmission plans, suitable for wire pair or coaxial repeatered lines is described. In these plans alternate pulses are inverted before transmission, and blocks ofnsuccessive spaces are replaced by distinctive patterns. The resulting pulse stream has no dc component and a minimum pulse density of1/n. Limitations onnare derived and examples given. Spectral densities are calculated and a typical circuit realization is shown."
"The publication as a set of a series of papers prepared by, or under the direction of, a single author, albeit a recognized expert, requires an explanation and an introduction. Too infrequently does a sponsored study program permit investigation of a technical subject to the depth necessary for the development of an adequate treatment in technical paper form. Dr. Bello's capability as a program manager in leading the study to a successful conclusion and the sympathetic support of the US Air Force Rome Air Development Center are evidenced by the detail of the five papers following in this Transactions. They complement each other in presenting an exhaustive treatment of the fundamental processes involved in digital data transmission via troposcatter channels. These papers present major contributions to solutions of the problems of digital troposcatter communications, with information which may affect the design of future systems. One paper is the first in open literature in which the concepts of modern communications theory are applied to optimum modem design for digital tropo. The analyses and computer simulation procedures, for calculating error performance of multifrequency, multiphase, adaptive bias systems, under conditions of additive noise with flat fading, and with frequency selective fading, are new and will be useful for workers in this field. Another paper contains a single, unifying treatment of the frequency and time-dependency of a tropo channel. In another, the definitions used in the development, if widely and commonly available, will provide a good basis for the advancement of tropo channel understanding. A concise compilation of the various modulation techniques, from the standpoint of power-bandwidth limitations is found in another paper. The analyses are complete, in particular, the discussion of modulation and detection techniques for tropo communications, which have been given a thorough and systematic treatment."
"This paper describes the essential features of a digital store developed at the Bell Telephone Laboratories. It is part of a computer-like control system that will be used in telephone switching applications. The paper covers the memory device (Piggyback Twistor), read and write techniques, circuits for driving and sensing, the broad system, and finally maintenance philosophy and a cost analysis."
"In order to hasten the development of electronic switching in the Bell System, the first two No. 1 Electronic Switching Systems (No. 1 ESS) were placed into service without benefit of a field trial. Based upon experience gained in these early offices, hardware and program modifications were made prior to placing subsequent offices into service. This paper describes the program, hardware, and translation changes that were retrofitted into the first two No. 1 ESS offices in order to bring them up-to-date. The retrofit of these changes were successfully made on an in-service basis."
"In this paper we study optimum routing strategies that minimize the degrading effects of system noise in noisy communication networks. Previous papers have treated problems related to finding an optimum single communication path through a network; we consider the problem of establishing several communication paths simultaneously. Networks with fixed link characteristics and networks with links that may adapt their number of channels to traffic requirements are considered. Primary emphasis is on digital communication networks, but it is also pointed out that the same techniques can be used for a certain class of linear, continuous signal networks. Using the concepts of information measure from information theory, we discuss the maximization of information transfer in a communication network. We also treat the problem of finding the maximum number of channel paths with signal transmission capabilities better than some lower bound, and the problem of findingkchannel paths that minimize the use of the poorest paths."
"The AN/GSC-10 (KATHRYN) is a digital data terminal for use on high-frequency radio circuits. In this paper, error rate and redundancy performance are discussed. Experimental data resulting from a cross-country field test are presented."
"Computer interconnections allowing half-duplex data communications have been analyzed using a single-server dualqueue model. Storage usage for message queuing at each computer and associated message delays are considered as functions of communications parameters."
"The performance of command and telemetry systems, useful in deep-space communications, is frequently affected by the radio-frequency phase error which is introduced at the point of reception by means of the carrier tracking loop. This paper presents design trends for the case where this phase error may vary over the duration of the signaling interval, i.e., the case where the ratio of the system data rate to carrier tracking loop bandwidth is less than one. Results are given for the case of binary phase-shift keyed (PSK) signaling."
"A theory for use in the design of block-coded telemetry systems is delineated. This theory is useful in designing and testing the performance of one- and two-way phase-coherent telemetry systems when a phase-locked receiver preceded by a bandpass limiter is used to track the modulation. System analysis for either orthogonal or biorthogonal codes is given. Design trends, relating the various system parameters, for practical code sizes are presented in graphical form. Emphasis is placed on design situations where the data rate is large when compared to the design point bandwidth of the carrier tracking loop. This appears to be the case of greatest practical interest."
"This paper presents an analysis of large information collection systems. The method employed consists of evaluating the probability of the system losing information due to overloading the receiving system with signals to be processed. Performance characteristics are derived that relate the probability of lost or incompletely processed signals versus the number of servicing receivers and mean arrival rate of the signals. Also considered is a special case of data redundancy in which the signal is allowed to repeat itself a fixed number of times. For this case, the probability of an incompletely serviced signal is related to the number of repeated data intervals and mean arrival rate. Most of the results are obtained analytically and are verified by the results of a Monte Carlo simulation using a digital computer."
"A general survey is given of the different synthesizer techniques with emphasis on the application in communication equipment. After enumeration of the fundamental concepts of addition and multiplication, the different systems are examined and classified. This leads to the conclusion that for high requirements of spectral purity of the output signal, electronic tuning, solid-state design, and microminiaturization, the loop systems are very attractive. Some applications of synthesizers in HF communications are treated."
"The detectability parameter (signal-to-noise ratio) at the output of a correlation detector is computed when the input is the hard-limited sum of a number of pseudonoise (PN) carriers plus noise. All pseudonoise carriers have the same amplitude and center frequency, but are phase modulated with different PN codes and have independent phase angles. The detectability parameter depends on the repeater bandwidth, the maximum number of channels, the number of active channels, the received signal-to-noise ratio, and the peak of the in- and out-of-phase cross correlations of the PN sequences."
"The need for dedicated telephone circuits between small population centers, geographically separated by large distances, is on the increase. The present practice of interconnecting long- and short-haul carrier systems at voice frequency to provide these circuits is inefficient and costly. The N3-L junction provides this interconnection on a group basis, thereby eliminating the costly channelizing equipment at the interface of the two facilities. Several incompatibilities between the signal on each of the facilities such as compressed transmission and high-level carriers on the N system are treated by the junction."
"This paper presents simulation-derived system parameters and error probabilities of a frequency cycling binary FSK energy detection troposcatter system. Included are effects of additive noise, intersymbol and intrasymbol interference, frequency selective fading, and multiple diversity."
"A class of power and bandwidth efficient high-speed digital data modems is described and corresponding theoretical error rate performances presented as a function of signal-to-noise ratio for a range of typical links."
"This paper presents an investigation of the problem of maximum likelihood detection of one ofMPoisson processes in a background of additive Poisson noise. When the observables correspond to counts of emitted photoelectrons, the problem models a discrete version of a coherentM-ary optical communication system using photon counters in the presence of background radiation. Consideration is given to an average distance and a detection probability criterion. The advantages of anM-ary pulsed intensity set (Poisson intensities wholly concentrated in a single counting interval) are demonstrated. The performance of such intensity sets is exhibited in terms of error probabilities, pulse widths, signal-tonoise ratio, and channel capacity. Behavior as a function of numberMof intensities is also discussed. By appropriate conversion these results may be used for determining power requirements in an optical pulse position modulation system."
"This paper evaluates the error probabilities due to both additive noise and frequency selective fading for predetection diversity combining FDM-FM systems using the troposcatter channel. Graphical results are presented for channel and modulation parameters of typical links."
"Using some basic results in propagation theory, a single integral is derived which relates the channel delay power spectrum to the geometry and antenna patterns of the troposcatter link. Theoretical curves of delay power spectra and frequency correlation functions are presented for medium- and long-distance troposeatter links."
"The problem of obtaining samples of the derivative of a function from the samples of the original function through purely digital operations is considered. The results are used to generate schemes for recovering a function when the set of samples consists of values of the function averaged over the sampling interval."
"Woodward's theorem asserts that the spectrum of a high-index frequency-modulated (FM) waveform is approximately the probability distribution of its instantaneous frequency, i.e., the univariate distribution of the modulating wave shifted by the carrier frequency. A new proof is presented which for the first time includes an upper bound on the error of this approximation and thus shows under what circumstances it is reliable."
"In this paper, a new representation theory that provides an improved description of the channel statistics of multihop and tropospheric scatter communication links is presented. Two conceptually different representations are developed. These representations, which are based on the deviations from a lognormal distribution, are due to the variable skewness of the lognormal distribution, extremely flexible, and can provide, with the proper choice of parameters, a good approximation of a broad class of non-Gaussian distributions. In addition, since the statistics of these channels are primarily due to multiplicative noise disturbances and the lognormal distribution results from multiplicative events, the presented representations mathematically describe the statistics of these channels in terms of a reference distribution related to their underlying natural processes. The proper application of this representation theory to the problem of signal detection in such non-Gaussian noise environments results in improved near-optimum signal detection systems. These procedures will yield, with an appropriate adjustment of system parameters, near-optimum performance for a large class of non-Gaussian channel noise conditions. In addition, these detectors can be easily implemented in terms of available devices and can be modified to operate in an adaptive mode."
"This paper presents an exposition of the role of power and bandwidth utilization considerations in the selection of communication techniques for troposcatter channels. The comparative power utilization efficiencies of a large number of techniques are considered both from the point of view of utilizing transmitter prime power and from the point of view of effectively using the actual received power. A data rate packing factor is defined to rate the bandwidth utilization efficiency of various carrier modulation, multiplexing, and information modulation techniques. An examination of the efficiencies of the various techniques leads to an optimum class of TDM modems."
"We consider the transmission of numerical data over a noisy channel. Two sources of error exist. The first is the quantizer where the input data is mapped into a finite set of rational numbers and the second is the channel which includes the encoder, transmitter, transmission medium, receiver, and decoder. For any given probability density on the input data and any given channel matrix, we determine the quantization values and transition levels which minimize the total mean-square error. We also determine the best quantizer structure under the constraint that quantization values and transition levels be equally spaced. For the special case of a noiseless channel both results reduce to those of Max [2]. As an example we consider the case of Gaussian input data and phase-shift keyed (PSK) transmission in additive white Gaussian noise. The transmitter is both peak and average power limited, and the system operates in real time. Both the natural and Gray codes are considered. The mean-square error, quantizer entropy, channel capacity, and information rate are computed for the system using the optimum uniform quantizer. Finally, we show that it is important to take the channel into consideration when designing the quantizer even when the system is not constrained to operate in real time."
"Understanding of the basic mathematical model of random communication nets is not possible unless assumptions are made that are both necessary and clear. Redundant and obscure statements of a problem make its solutions meaningless. Some conclusions are reached which conflict with previously obtained results."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This work is concerned with the effect of grouping data into blocks for transmission in an error detect-retransmit system. A formula is presented giving transmission efficiencyEin data bits per binit.Eis a function of the time per bit, block length, nondata bits per block, data bits per word, and average time\\bar{T}per block transmission.\\bar{T}takes into consideration block length, block starting bit times, mean time to error, turnaround time upon error detection, and correct-block acknowledge time. Using the formula forEand the statistics of the bit error rate distribution, an optimum or even variable block length may be chosen. The variable block length system automatically switches when the present efficiency is estimated, with a given confidence, to be nonoptimum."
"Selected short block and convolutional code improvements using dual inband frequency diversity and nondiversity frequency-shift keyed experimental data obtained on a 2800-km HF path are compared. It is shown that time dispersion techniques (interleaving, diffusion, etc.) are necessary for the short codes to perform measurably better than uncoded dual inband diversity With interleaving, more than two orders of magnitude improvement resulted. The measured binary errors on a nondiversity FSK subchannel (one of 16) are shown to be statistically dependent (nonrandom) for transmission frequencies between the path lowest usable frequency and maximum usable frequency. The range of gap and burst distributions are given indicating the small difference in distribution for the set of frequencies and times on this particular mid-latitude HF path. Comparison of nondiversity and diversity burst distributions present the burst length reductions and change in distribution brought about by diversity."
"The optimum (maximum-likelihood) synchronizer for extracting bit synchronization directly from a binary data stream is presented along with some simple suboptimum synchronizers that perform almost as well. The manner in which the performances of these systems depend on the pertinent system parameters as determined by a combined program of analysis, simulation, and laboratory experimentation are reported. Both synchronizer jitter and the degradation in error rate due to jitter are considered."
"A technique to determine the optimal design of an FDM-FM communications link considering both dollar cost and system performance is established. The four major items of a communications system, transmitter, receiver, transmitting antenna, and receiving antenna, are considered to be stages of a serial-multistage system with the signal-to-noise power ratio as a final boundary value and threshold as a constraint. For eyery combination of the four equipment items, an rms channel modulation index is computed, which for median performance and the system constraint minimizes the required received carrier power. The cost of those combinations of equipment meeting or exceeding the system requirements are computed and compared. Single variable search optimization techniques are used. Rigorous rapid design of analog communications systems is provided. The least cost system and other selected qualifying systems are explicitly determined."
"A simple error rate approximation is derived, and bounds on the accuracy are found. The results are applied to the question of how accurately the system error rate may be determined by using nonrandom data."
"Experimental results are presented which demonstrate that significant intermodulation and cross-modulation products are generated in both the RF amplifier and mixer, in a typical receiver. Measured values of four additional spurious response types are given, for the same receiver. The measurement techniques used represent a departure from traditional methods."
"A 2400-bit/s four-phase data set with unique clockrecovery and compatible-signal detector circuits is described. It is used as either a terminal set or self-switched regenerative repeater in AUTOVON."
"The 10-C telephone switching system comprises modular multistage link switching networks composed of reed crosspoint matrices, controlled by a stored-program controlled central processor system. In addition to the advantages inherent in the use of sealed contacts, such as high transmission quality, low noise, long life, etc., the following useful system features are obtained: high switching speed, high crosspoint efficiency, optimum match between network and central control, efficient path search and marking procedures, easy extensibility, and integrated quasi-electronic plug-in mounting techniques. The 10-C central processor system is mainly composed of integrated circuit logic and ferrite memory features: high speed, simplicity, compact construction, and high intrinsic reliability. Common storage in extensible randomaccess ferrite memory is provided for program instructions, and translation and parameter tables, as well as variable call data. The duplicate processors working in the load-sharing mode are complemented with a program-reload and automatic recovery system. The first exchange of this type was handed over to the Belgian administration in 1967 and integrated in the Antwerp area automatic telephone network."
"The concept of a netted or distributed communications system is significant because it offers a major advantage over conventional communications systems, i.e., a better chance of providing surviving lines of communication after an attack on the system. During and after an attack, however, an effective adaptive routing technique is necessary to adjust the routing tables of the message-switching control system to the changing situation. Previously investigated adaptive routing techniques are shown to be insufficient for the task, and a number of promising alternatives are formulated and investigated such as some stochastic techniques, which use information on messages passing through the network to adjust the tables, and some deterministic techniques, which use dynamic programming or graph-theoretic algorithms to recalculate changes in the tables from observed changes in the network. Each alternative has operational advantages, which make it good for certain types of communications systems, and certain disadvantages if applied to others. Regions of applicability and inapplicability, with respect to the above system parameters, are given for the various techniques. Recommended techniques are specified for two currently proposed applications of distributed communications systems. A number of research areas are pointed out in which further efforts in the analysis and simulation of adaptive routing techniques will have useful payoffs in the design of future distributed communications systems."
"A fully transistorized low-cost visual communication system has been constructed for the high-speed transmission of still two-level pictures (black and white) over the unmodified existing telephone networks. It reduces the transmission times of ordinary facsimile by a factor of from 10:1 to 20:1, still producing readable pictures with a signal-to-noise ratio of 20 dB. The case of short-distance communication (private telephone exchanges) and some other possibilities of particular application are also discussed. Experimental results are shown, recorded under various operating conditions."
"A new approach to the prediction of error rates in digital data transmission systems when the dominant source of errors is given by noise bursts, each having a fiat spectrum across the band of interest, is described. Specifically, a hierarchy of phaseaveraged conditional error probabilities calledkth receiver impulse characteristics (RIC) are defined, which depend only on the receiver's structure. Error probabilities are then computed by averaging the RICs over the statistics of the impulsive noise which is characterized at the RF input of the receiver. To illustrate the approach in a practical, interesting situation, a detailed analysis is carried out for a phase-shift keyed system employing either a linear or a hard-limiting receiver, and for impulse rates small enough that errors are essentially caused by single impulses."
"A survey in Santiago, Chile, shows a total unsatisfied demand for residential telephone connections which is four times as large as the waiting list. Factors hiding the demand include nonownership of homes and excessive delay in providing new lines."
"The research described was conducted in order to provide a partial answer to the question: \"Which of a set voice communication systems provides satisfactory performance for the least cost?\". Since the ultimate measure of performance is the subjective quality of the received message, a subjective evaluation procedure was developed and used to subjectively evaluate, optimize, and compare the performance capabilities of pulse-code modulation (PCM), differential PCM (DPCM), deltamodulation (\\DeltaM); double- and single-sideband amplitude modulation (AM), and phase modulation (PM) systems. The results can also be used to evaluate pulse amplitude modulation systems. For each type of System a unique set of optimum parameters was obtained, and the maximum subjective quality was determined as a function of the characteristics of the transmission channel. For good channels, DPCM is superior to PCM, which in turn is superior to AM and PM. For lower quality channels, AM systems are sometimes best. Only for bit rates of less than 10 and 18 kbit/s, respectively, is AM competitive with DPCM and PCM. Since the mean-square difference\\varepsilon^{2}between the transmitted and received message is often indicative of received message quality,\\varepsilon^{2}for PCM, DPCM, AM, PM, and FM was derived, its minimization by proper choice of system variables was considered,and a method was developed for comparing\\varepsilon^{2}for various systems. A description of the real-time system used to prepare speech samples for the listening tests is also included."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Comments are made regarding a recent paper on the performance of tropospheric communication links in Korea. The uncertainty due to the finite duration of the measurement period was apparently not taken into account in the comparison of predicted and measured transmission loss values. Also, comparisons made between the variability of hourly median transmission loss values and estimates based on the NBS path loss prediction method may be misinterpreted. The original paper appeared in IEEE Trans. Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 694-700, October 1967."
"The objective of a pulse-modulation (PM) system is to yield as high as possible an output signal-to-noise ratio(S/N)_{0}for a given channel signal-to-noise ratio(S/N)_{0}and bandwidth expansion factor β. In particular, one would like to design a modulation system in which the(S/N)_{0}approaches that of the Shannon bound(S/N)_{0} \\leq [1 + (S/N)_{c}\\beta^{-1}]^{\\beta}. For a fixed system such as the pulse-position modulation (PPM), the relationship between(S/N)_{0}and(S/N)_{c}, must be linear above threshold. Thus to approach the β-power behavior of the Shannon bound, we must consider a family of PM systems. A class of systems is analyzed in which phase modulation of varying modulation indices is amplitude modulated by a PPM signal of fixed bandwidth. I t i s shown that when(S/N)_{c}, is large, the performance is proportional to the square of the modulation index which can be increased without changing the signal bandwidth. However, as the modulation index is increased, more sidelobes appear in the output of likelihood receiver which lead to large so-called anomolous errors. The effect of the sidelobes can be decreased significantly by redesigning the PPM signal since its autocorrelation function amplitude modulates the sidelobes. A new upper bound on the mean-squared error is derived which takes into account the effects of the noise at these sidelobe peaks. The bound depends functionally on the waveform which is used in the PPM modulator, and this raises the question as to which signal is the best one to use. An optimization problem is formulated using state-space techniques and solved numerically using a known algorithm. It is shown that it is possible to reduce the threshold significantly using optimally designed waveforms. The Barankin bounds are applied to the PPM/PM waveform to give lower bounds on the mean-squared error. It is therefore possible to bracket the actual performance region of the PPM/PM modulation system. The lower bounds lead to upper bounds on(S/N)_{0}and a sequence of bounds, each representing the best performance possible for a given modulation index, is obtained. The envelope of these bounds is then compared with the Shannon bound, and it is shown that although the PPM/PM modulation does not have performance closely approaching the Shannon bound, it does represent a substantial improvement over straight PPM."
"The recently developed HC-278 digital data modem provides full-duplex data transmission at rates up to 1200 bit/s over voice bandwidth channels in fixed or transportable ground electronic systems. Using phase continuous frequency shift modulation, the modem meets the operational requirements of JCS Publ. 10 (TADIL-B) and the interface requirements of MIL-STD188B. Suitable transmission channels include wire lines and tropospheric scatter radio equipment. Maximum usage of digital techniques and integrated circuits provides economy, reliability, simplicity, and compactness. The modulator accepts synchronous serial digital data at standard rates of 75, 150, 300, 600, or 1200 bit/s and converts the bits into tones representing MARK frequency (logical 1) and SPACE frequency (logical 0). At the receiving terminal, the composite line signal containing the above tones is decoded into the original serial bit stream. System timing is derived from a crystal oscillator with a frequency of 1.0752 MHz and stability of1 \\times 10^{-7}per month."
"Studies to use the 12-GHz band for a TV customer service are presented. Centimetric wave propagation in city areas, concepts of modulation, transmitter design, the measuring setup, and subscribers' receivers are discussed."
"A recent series of system performance measurements on a long (5988 nautical mile) HF trunk circuit from Asmara, Ethiopia, to La Plata, Md., has demonstrated good agreement between error rate theory and performance. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) time distribution shows the effect of SNR changes upon system outage rate."
"The No.1 Electronic Switching Systems (ESS) use stored program control to perform the telephone switching function. Central processor units, including memory, are duplicated for reliability. New features are generally provided by program changes only and their inclusion in a precutover office poses no new problems. However, to include new features in an operational office via program changes, without affecting service, is a unique task. This task was faced in the development of a new route control feature for the AUTOVON network."
"Research done at the Centre National d'Etudes des Télécommunications computing center is described in order to determine the optimal number of telephone exchanges and their locations. A mathematical model is given for the city and its subscriber population, and the optimization is then carried out."
"Recent surveys of noise on subscriber loops indicate that a significant number of party lines fail to meet Bell System objectives. Investigations have shown that connection of the ringer to ground seriously degrades the balance of the wire facility and, as a result, lines having longitudinally induced voltages from power systems are quite likely to have high metallic noise. In the past, ringers have been isolated from ground, except during ringing, by using cold cathode gaseous discharge tubes. However, the tubes are not compatible with present automatic number identification schemes and, therefore, are not applicable on a large percentage of two-party lines. A new solid-state ringer isolator has been developed to solve these problems. The isolator, which is connected in series with the ringer and ground, consists of two thyristors. The circuit is designed to isolate the ringer from ground for longitudinal voltages as high as 150 volts. The large ac difference in potential across the line, which exists only during ringing, is the source of base current to the thyristor, causing it to switch to a low impedance state and the isolator has little effect on the sensitivity of the ringer."
"Communication networks with link transit times are modeled by linear graphs with branch time delays and finite branch capacities. Memoryless linear routing strategies as well as linear routing strategies with finite memory are defined. The state reachability problem in both cases is considered, and the sets of reachable demand vectors are exhibited. The problem of finding optimal routings which minimize network losses subject to demand constraints is formulated as a linear program, and extensions to infinite memory and time-varying systems are given."
"Practically all echo suppressors presently used in long-distance telephone circuits operate on the principle of cutting off the sending circuit when the receiving speech level is greater than the sending speech level, thereby suppressing echoes. Therefore, they generate a faulty speech problem due to the cutting off of speech in simultaneous talking, thus making speech unnatural. To correct this fault, a blockless echo suppressor which, unlike the usual echo suppressors, generates a signal equivalent to the echo to be canceled, has been developed. In the suppressor, a signa1 equivalent to an echo is produced from the convolution of a received speech signal and an echo-path impulse response which is stored in a memory in advance of the commencement of commercial service. It has been confirmed by subjective evaluation that an echo suppressor of this kind manufactured for trials has better talking quality than any other kind of typical echo suppressors now in service. This is because an echo is effectively suppressed more than 30 dB below the transmitted speech signal, and speech is not cut off in this suppressor."
"Based upon methods outlined by the author in 1968, he presents in this correspondence the steady-state probability density function of a phase measurement made by two phase-locked loops (PLLs) in cascade. He treats the special case of two first-order loops. However, he expects to report upon the general theory presently under development in a later paper."
"Utilization of the fast Fourier transform to detect and classify signals generated in the underwater acoustic channel is considered. A quadrature sampling technique is developed that permits efficient coefficient representation of narrow-band signals. A spatially distributed target composed of Gaussian scatterers is used to derive optimum detection and classification techniques. The optimum detector for spatially distributed targets is presented. In addition, cepstrum analysis is employed to extract significant classification clues such as target size and highlight structure. Typical experimental results of target echo, envelope, spectrum, and cepstrum are presented."
"A private line communications system designed to provide the necessary switching, concentrating, and human factor features for time-shared real-time operation is described. This system required the development of a special concentrator switcher module that combines the on-line capability of a private line with the economy that can be realized from a switched network. The design and operation of the concentrator showing its application in the system is followed by an evaluation of the operating results."
"Comma-free binary orthogonal codes, as described by Stiffler [1] [2], exhibit properties that are desirable for word synchronization purposes. Hall and Stiffler [3] have shown that, unfortunately, there are no such codes of length 8. It is shown that, despite the lack of comma freedom, the particular biorthogonal (8,4) code discussed has excellent word synchronization capabilities when treated as being comma free."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A system is described, which is based on structural and perceptual redundancy. It employs the idle periods of one picture to introduce information from other pictures and integrates over several TV frames. The system is capable of multiplexing 15 high-resolution black and white TV channels."
"After 10 years research on the electronic switching system, Nippon Telephone and Telegraph (NTT) decided to develop the electronic switching system with stored program control in 1964. The Dendenkosha (NTT) electronic switching system for experiment DEX-I system was designed as the experimental space division unit to study the program control technique, and has the ferreed switch network and the central control of 4-μs memory cycle time. Another test system, the DEX-T1 system was also designed to apply the pulse code modulation (PCM) technique to switching network. Lines are concentrated by the ferreed switch network controlled from the remote parent office and are switched through the PCM switching network at the parent office. Both systems were installed in the Electrical Communication Laboratory, NTT, and tests were completed in 1967. From these experiments the DEX-2 system for the field trial was designed. Small crossbar switches and miniature relays were adopted to make the system smaller, and high-speed logical elements were used to improve the call-processing capability and simplicity of the central control, and the magnetic drum was introduced for the economy of memories. This system occupies only one-third of the space of the existing switching system and has a capability of about 30,000 lines."
"The PERICLES system is a stored-program electronic switching system. The type presently being developed is meant to cover the predicted French Post Office needs from 1972 in the range of 4000-30 000 lines. The typical features of the system are described. A PERICLES exchange is composed of three different parts: the central control unit, the switching network, and the access devices to the links. The PERICLES central control unit consists of two processors which operate in traffic sharing. The processors have been designed to enable a low hardware cost and a high traffic efficiency. The switching network has its own control logic unit; it is considered as a peripheral of the processor. An advantage of this process is that PERICLES is independent of the crosspoint technology (reed relay, microcrossbar, p-n-p-n junction, etc.). For the moment the studies have been geared toward a reed-relay crosspoint with an electric hold (three wires). A 2000-subscriber prototype manufactured by SO.CO.TEL. and Le Materiel Telephonique will be in service in the Parisian public network in 1969."
"A standards converter that translates simultaneously between the United States and European wirephoto networks has been developed. Items of noncompatibility include picture duration, lines per minute, lines per inch, and scanning direction. The system operates completely automatically. It discriminates between voice and picture signals, adjusts for input level, and determines the input line scanning frequency. After appropriate analog processing, the signal is digitized and passed through a magnetic core storage onto a magnetic drum, which has sufficient capacity to accommodate the 6-minute difference in picture duration. The data are later read from the drum into the core, put into the correct time scale, converted back to analog form, and used to modulate the output carrier. Since the United States picture has more lines than the European, a line interpolation process is used in the United States-to-Europe direction that converts 13 lines of the input picture into 12 lines of the output picture. In the reverse direction the picture is shrunk in the horizontal direction by one part in 13. Since its installation in January, 1968, the converter has been operating continuously in New York City. Its inputs are normally left connected to the appropriate networks, with the picture editor making the decision in each case about whether the output is to be transmitted, recorded on tape for later use, or abandoned. Considerable savings in time and improvement in quality have resulted, as compared with the previous procedure of rescanning a picture on one machine which was recorded on another."
"The accuracy achievable by the envelope method in the measurement of the Doppler spread of a dispersive channel or, more generally, of any scintillating source that can be modeled as a Gaussian process is evaluated. Specifically, the effects of additive independent noise, finite sample size, and numerical differentiation are discussed, and analytical expressions are given for the resulting errors."
"Coherent quadrature modulation has long been identified with the bandwidth-efficient transmission of low-pass signals over bandpass media. A significant recent contribution to the theory of parallel transmission has been that of O'Neill and Saltzberg; they showed that if there was proper synchronization between the modulating carrier and the data clock, then the two parallel channels in coherent quadrature transmission could be equalized by a single transversal filter directly in tandem with the transmission facility, and the same automatic equalization algorithms would be applicable as have previously been associated with strictly serial transmission employing vestigial sideband modulation. It is seen here that the analytic technique of O'Neill and Saltzberg can be used to show that the convenient transversal filter equalization is also possible in the more general coherent quadrature systems in which the synchronization condition imposed by those authors may not hold. Thus it is implied that parallel transmission with coherent quadrature modulation can be adopted in many applications heretofore reserved for serial transmission."
"The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the output of an ideal FM detector is determined as a function of the modulation index for the case of an SSB-FM signal plus narrow-band Gaussian noise at the input, where the input SNR is large. The modulation is assumed to be sinusoidal, and the noise is taken to be flat over the intermediate frequency band."
"This paper describes a new code format called the feedback balanced code (FBC) for multilevel pulse code modulation (PCM) transmission, which is easily implemented and is capable of efficient utilization of transmission cable. The FBC is a type of multilevel code which has no dc wander and is obtained by the polarity control of the output pulse sequence using negative feedback. The principle of the FBC and its static balance condition are discussed, and spectral analysis using transition probability is described. FBCs are shown to have spectral nulls at dc and at frequency fo. Suppression of the low-frequency component is also represented by a transfer function of the FBC converter by employing an appropriate assumption of linearization. The suppression characteristic is much improved by using a double integration feedback network. A higher order FBC is also discussed, which has spectral nulls at frequencyf_{o}/nand its integral multiples. The preceding theoretic approach was well verified through experiments."
"Linearly independent (rather than orthogonal) superpositions of harmonically related sine and cosine pulses of durationTform the basis of partial-response signals for parallel data transmission throughKoverlapping channels. The channels are equally spaced byb=1/T, each one carrying a signaling rate2b. With a large number of channels, such systems very closely approach the Nyquist rate. Duality relations are shown to exist between the frequencydomain partial-response (FDPR) signals which will be described and the time-domain partial-response (TDPR)-signals which were defined by Kretzmer. FDPR signals are characterized by: 1) a specific coherent envelope with a gradual roll-off, 2) precisely prescribed amounts of interchannel interference between adjacent channels, and 3) more than two received levels with binary input data, which requires transmitter precoding or receiver decoding. Three FDPR signal classes are defined, and system implementation and performance are discussed with respect to a system utilizing time-limited orthogonal signals. Band occupancies and Gaussian noise performance are given, and sensitivities to various receiver impairments are investigated by computer simulation."
"The performance of phase-locked or delay-locked loops is dependent both upon the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the received signal and the detailed structure of both the received signal and the local-reference signal. Optimum signals for first-order delay-locked loops are determined as functions of the loop SNR using simple optimization criteria."
"The binary symmetrical channel with memory (Gilbert model) allows a satisfactory approximation of the error distribution on real channels characterized by error bursts. Its use is, however, relatively limited due to the computing involvemeats, which usually lead to the programming of the respective problems on a computer. Two manners of simplifying the computation of the probabilityP(m,n)ofmerrors in a code word of lengthn, are shown. The first manner is based on deducing a direct relation by means of the method of the generating function and simplifying it on the basis of the existing inequalities among the usual values of the Gilbert channel parameters. The second manner is based on deducing an upper bound for theP(m,n)probability on the Gilbert channel. The formulas deduced allow simplification of the computation of the performance of the error correcting and detecting codes on the Gilbert channel."
"The potential use of surface waves for the communication and control link with high-speed trains is being studied for the U. S. Department of Transportation, Office of High-Speed Ground Transportation. The results are presented for the first part of this study, which dealt with the feasibility of using the surfacewave transmission line (SWTL) as this link, including its characteristics, launching energy onto the line, coupling to and from the line, and communication capacity. The SWTL shows promise in providing the bandwidth and economy required to meet the demands of a high-speed ground transportation system, without requiring the allocation of space in the crowded radio spectrum."
"A numerical method which uses a first-order approximation for calculating FM distortion due to bandpass filters has been developed. The transfer function of the bandpass filter is represented by a Fourier series. The numerical accuracy of this method can be determined by checking the sampled impulse response of the network and the sampled autocorrelation function of the phase distortion. Applications of this method are illustrated by examples."
"An investigation of the response of a quantum detector to a prescribed incident electromagnetic field is presented. For the fields used, a statistical description of the resulting current flow is given. First and second moments of the resulting densities are calculated, and signal-to-noise ratios are computed."
"The self-noise of a system that uses frequency hopping for channel coding is determined for the limiting case of no receiver noise. The noise output is found to be a semirandom sequence of \"clicks.\" Adjacent clicks are correlated, and the power density spectrum is of the formsin^{2} x."
"The required energy per information bitE_{B}/N_{o}to achieve a specified error probability with a binary error correcting code is reduced by retaining partial knowledge of digit amplitudes. Quantization to three or four levels is the minimum step of demodulator complexity beyond hard decisions. A simple extension of binary decoding is described which achieves a large part of the maximum improvement theoretically available with unquantized demodulation. The usual decoding process is modified only to the extent that two decoding operations are performed, rather than one. Also, storage is needed to compare the two resulting words to select the preferred one. With four-level demodulation, an improvement of more than one decibel is demonstrated even for small code word lengths over a nonfading phase shift keyed (PSK) coherent channel with white Gaussian noise."
"An encoder is described which features nonuniform qnantizing by combining the processes of encoding and compression. The encoder utilizes the feedback weighing principle and achieves compression in accordance with a 13-segment characteristic. A distinguishing feature of the encoder is that it uses a certain redundancy in circuit elements instead of employing elements with close tolerances."
"This paper presents the condensed results of a field test of three types of forward error correction equipments operated over transcontinental HF links. The equipments were first operated from west to east over a 3000-mile link to establish the basic bit error performance. The equipments were then integrated into an operational system and used in conjunction with an error correcting system operated in a full duplex mode over the same links, with a stored program processor at the east and west terminals. Finally, the equipments were operated from east to west and back to east, using the two links in tandem with regeneration at the west terminal. Comparative bit and block error rates are given for each test; the equipment and propagation delays were measured and are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Tight upper and lower bounds on the probability of errorP(E)are derived for self-synchronized binary phase-shift keyed (PSK) communication systems. It is shown that the differential, decision feedback, and phase, doubling PSK receivers can all be represented by a single system block diagram. A new maximum-likelihood system is also derived and studied. Monte Carlo computer simulation results are presented for the various systems, and their performance is found to be very similar. Finally, differentially encoded self-synchronized PSK systems are compared to transmitted reference systems, and regions of operation are specified where each class of systems is superior."
"Both Bell System and also independent telephone operating companies seem to be well aware of the large potential savings in outside plant costs offered by fine gauge cable. The problem, of courses is how to realize these potential savings and still be able to dial, ring, supervise, and talk over the higher resistances and greater facility attenuations that normally result when fine instead of coarse gauge cable is used. Only the ringing problems associated with long subscriber loops are covered here. Long loops are defined here as those ranging from 2000- to 4300ohm resistance of buried exchange cable having a mutual capacitance of 0.083 mF per mile. Somewhat lower limits apply to aerial plants."
"Binary synchronous communications, in particular the line-control functions, are described. These functions are independent of the devices transmitting and receiving, the mode of transmission, and the transmission code. A mode known as transparent transmission allows the transmission of data, independent of its bit structure. The various aspects of transmission are discussed, including station control, transmission formating, error detection, and error recovery. In addition, the communication control characters are described in detail."
"Equations (10) and (12) of the above-named article are corrected. the original article appears in ibid., vol. COM-17, pp. 403-412, June 1969."
"The impulse noise that occurs on telephone channels affects the performance of data transmission systems more than it affects voice communications. As a step in constructing a more meaningful model of a telephone channel for use in data transmission studies, a computer-oriented classification technique to search for representative classes of impulse waveforms has been developed. Classes of impulses have been found experimentally in representative samples of actual noise from telephone channels. Results concerning these classes and the impulses in these classes are presented."
"A new toll service desk (TSD) system has been developed and successfully introduced, which greatly reduces the human involvement in the processing of operator-assisted telephone toll calls. This combination of an advanced toll recording system, a modem pushbutton-operated console, and a common control crossbar switching system has automated a major portion of the traffic room functions. The design concept and features of the TSD system are discussed."
"A problem that arises in multipath fading channels is that of finding a modulation which enables one to obtain high data rates and at the same time does not lead to an excessively complicated system implementation or the requirement of excessive transmitter power. In many dispersive channels the product of time dispersion and Doppler spread is large, so that coherent modulation systems are not feasible. Examples of such overspread or nearly overspread channels are the West Ford channel, the endoionospheric channel when using aurora injection, and, in some instances, the moon relay channel. For such channels consideration must be given to the use of incoherent modulation systems. Consideration is given to the performance in fading channels of an incoherent modulation system which uses a subclass of permutation modulation called frequency-shift keying (FSK) permutation (PFSK) modulation. The channel is assumed to have the following characteristics. First, the (Gaussian) noise for each propagation mode is white and independent, with equal noise density spectrums; and second, the fadings for the different propagation modes are Rayleigh distributed and independent with equal variance. Extensive curves are given for the performance of various PFSK modulations in terms of the modulation signal-waveform error probabilities (often referred to as the word error probabilities) for the case of frequency-selective fading. Bounds on the modulation performance are given for the case of flat fading. Consideration is given to the problem of comparing the PFSK modulations with each other and with other available modulations to determine which is best for communicating a givenL-ary message sequence, with respect to the transmitter power and bandwidth required. Toward this end, a relatively simple method is presented for comparing modulations, which circumvents the problem of requiring detailed knowledge of the mapping from the original information data source (which, for greatest generality, is assumed to consist ofs L_{i}-state Markov chains,i = 1,...,s,which are to be transmitted simultaneously) to the modulation waveforms. The method provides upper and lower bounds for the required receiver signal energy to noise density ratio perL-ary symbol for a specifiedL-ary error rate (or else, bounds for theL-ary error rates for a specified receiver signal energy to noise density ratio perL-ary symbol). The upper bound is based on the performance of the modulation for the ensemble average of all possible mappings, or, equivalently, for a random mapping (analogous to random coding). The lower bound corresponds to the performance of the modulation for an optimum mapping, which is in effect a generalization of the Gray-code-type mapping used for phaseshift keying (PSK) modulation. (To obtain the lower bound on the modulation performance, the details of the optimum mapping need not be known; moreover, it remains to prove the existence of this optimum mapping.) The method is general and applicable to a wide class of modulations and channels. Applying the technique to FSK, FSK permutation, and amplitude-keyed (AK) carrier modulations yields results which conveniently show, for differentL_{i}-ary source sequences, the cost in increased transmitter power required to achieve higher data rates with various modulations. The comparison data indicates that, in some instances, relative to the FSK modulation, one can obtain with PFSK modulations increased data rates for a given signal bandwidth without requiring an increased received signal energy to noise density ratio perL-ary source symbol.As a consequence of these results, PFSK modulations should perhaps be of interest to the designer of fading communications channels not having large time-dispersion times Doppler-spread products, as well as to the designer of highly perturbed channels. Finally, a means is given for transmitting PFSK modulations in time-dispersive fading channels, which does not require the use of a linear power amplifier."
"Rice [1] has shown that the noise output of an FM discriminator may be assumed to be the sum of two uncorrelated components, a Gaussian term and a click term (Poisson shot noise of impulses) for large carrier-to-noise ratios (CNR). In this paper the click process is introduced and the output noise is modeled again as the sum of a Gaussian term and shot-noise term that are in general correlated. The autocorrelation of the click process is derived and is shown to reduce to that of a Poisson process for large CNR. The cross correlation between the two components is derived, and the assumption that the two components become uncorrelated for large CNR is verified. The power spectrum of the Gaussian plus correlated click noise is compared to the exact power spectrum of the total output noise of an FM discriminator. Only the case with no modulation is analyzed."
"A method of computation is presented enabling the estimation of suppression and intermodulation with multiple carriers as the input to a soft- or hard-limiting channel (without memory except for filtering to the first zone). The approach utilizes a direct representation in the time domain and a Monte Carlo simulation to gather statistics over the ensemble of the phase angles of the input carriers. For a small number of carriers the computer time involved is modest; hence the approach is computationally useful. The results display the hitherto unobserved behavior that, with respect to any selected carrier, the quadrature intermodulation has greater power than the inphase intermodulation. The impact of this behavior with a small number of phasemodulated carriers in multiple access to a limiting satellite repeater channel may be noted."
"The principle of a lightweight acousto-optic receiver and fast spectrum analyzer, capable of reception and analysis of electromagnetic signals in the VHF-UHF range, is described. The principle consists of first converting electromagnetic signals to ultrasonic signals that propagate in a solid transparent medium and subsequently separating these signals into many channels by light diffraction techniques. A multitude of diffracted light beams are formed, each of which contains an up-converted segment of the RF input signal band. Simultaneous signal detection in all channels is accomplished with an array of photodiode detectors. A detailed analysis of this signal reception technique is presented, along with a description of a laboratory model of the receiver-analyzer. Experimental data obtained on the performance of both this model and its component parts is described. Good agreement is found between theory and experiment. The experimental model operates over a frequency range from 200 to 500 MHz, with a 5.3-MHz continuous wave frequency resolution."
"Various synchronization systems which function to multiplex lower speed pulse-code-modulated (PCM) signals into a high-speed signal and to drop each lower signal from the highspeed PCM signal, are considered from a practical viewpoint for a useful PCM hierarchial network, and a suitable evaluation basis for such systems is introduced. Three new stuff-synchronization methods are proposed and designed. A severly reliable bit synchronization function necessary for bit multiplexing can be provided by using a quartz crystal resonant circuit. Relations between the system parameters and transmission performance, such as framing time and stuffing error rate, especially stuff-jitter response for coded frequency-division-multiplex (FDM) signal, are analyzed, and the design technique has been established. The test equipments operated perfectly to verify the expected performances. The results suggest these systems are two or four times as advantageous as usual systems on the evaluation basis."
"To implement the minimum probability of error receiver forM-ary frequency-shift-keyed (FSK) communications over a Gaussian scatter channel, a minimum mean-squared error estimate of the scattered channel output signal must be constructed. It has been difficult to construct the optimum receiver since the correlation function of the scattered signal must be measured, and the impulse response of the estimation filter must then be found by solving a difficult integral equation. Stochastic approximation methods are used to develop an on-line algorithm for generating a self-optimizing filter. This filter is then used in the minimum probability of error receiver to estimate the sample function at the output of an ultrasonic model of a needles scatter channel. Experiments have been performed which indicate that the proposed adaptive receiver structure can be of practical utility because of its ease of implementation and speed of operation."
"This local exchange system features new customer services, remotely controlled concentrators, and automatic maintenance and operation facilities. It comprises central control with a memory bank and a speech path network with bistable ordinate switches."
"Wired-logic control is efficient but inflexible, whereas stored-program control is flexible but less efficient. The DS 4 system is a judicious attempt to combine the best features of both methods of control. This is the most evident in the telegraph line control unit, via which messages are received and transmitted, for this unit has the ability to absorb unexpected traffic peaks as a normal operating feature. System coordination, message analysis, and processing are handled by a stored-program computer. Simple and repetitive character assembly and disassembly and transfer to the core-store functions are performed by a wired-logic processor, as IS the function of information transfer between bulk storage and core store. The computer used in the system was designed for telecommunications applications. The instructions are simple, whereas addressing is sophisticated. These techniques reduce program storage occupation and hence hardware, and also increase the capacity of the system, which can handle up to ten terminating messages per second. Up to 256 low-speed and 32 medium-speed telegraph lines can be served. Transistor-transistor logic integrated circuits are used for high-speed operation and diode-transistor logic circuits are used for logic elements outside the critical path of high-speed operation. This use of integrated circuits, modular construction, wire-wrapped connections, and clamp-type connectors makes the DS 4 an extremely reliable equipment. A two-stage system of synchronization with complete frequency and phase locking of telegraph bit clocks permits duplex operation with no switchover problems and gives almost perfect reliability."
"Compatible single-sideband transmission has been shown to be possible under the limits of an iterative signal-processing technique and with the use of ideal band-limited channels. A realization technique is presented which removes the constraint of ideal channels, but requires a trivial redefinition of the channel to include the effect of delay elements. The step response and convergence characteristics of the signal processor are investigated using digital time-domain simulation. The impulse response of an experimental processor is given, and rapid convergence is shown."
"An error detector for data transmission systems using a partial-response signaling format is described. The basis of the error detector is a partial-response correlation constraint. An approximate expression for performance is presented, and it is noted that calculated and experimental performance agree for error rates less than 10-3."
"In recent literature the advantages of an idealized narrow-width pulse-position modulated (PPM) optical communication system, using coherent sources and direct photodetection, have been shown. In this paper the practical design of such an operating PPM link is considered. System performance in terms of error probabilities and information rates is derived in terms of key parameters, such as power levels, number of PPM signals, pulse width, and bandwidths. Both background radiation and receiver thermal noise are included. Design procedures utilizing this data are outlined. Whenever possible, optimal design values and parameter tradeoffs, in terms of maximizing information rate or minimizing transmitter power, are shown. The effect on performance of photomultipliers and their inherent statistics is also presented. Although the basic analysis is derived in terms of photon \"counts,\" the necessary system optics equations are introduced to allow for overall optical hardware design. The primary underlying assumption is that synchronization is maintained at all times between the transmitter and receiver."
"The results of a series of very-high-frequency (VHF) aeronautical communications tests conducted with NASA Applications Technology satellites are summarized. The tests were undertaken to collect data which could be compared to the results obtained from a previously derived analytical model. Specifically, the objective of the program was the measurement of the received signal strength and fading characteristics, as received on board a typical commercial jet aircraft to determine the effectiveness of communication and to establish parameters which can be useful to the communication system designer. A discussion of the analytical model, including the antenna characteristics, is followed by a brief description of the test program. The results and conclusions included consideration of the signal amplitude behavior, signal-to-noise ratio, antenna pattern effects, multipath, and system gain and noise. Probability distributions of signal fading and examples of unusual signal reception are included. The probability distributions provide a guide to system designers in establishing communications reliability for specific systems. It was concluded from the tests that the received signal level exceeded the voice intelligibility threshold more than 98 percent of the time using the test system."
"The time-varying nature of long cable systems precludes their use for the transmission of television signals which require a fine degree of equalization. A system has been built, where the TV channel quality is continuously monitored and the required equalization is automatically performed during signal transmission. The principles and operation of this system are explained, and some actual experimental results are discussed."
"A description of equipment providing acoustical transmission over ordinary telephone lines and utilizing standard telephone handsets is presented. Included is a discussion of the more pertinent parameters which determine the final design of the equipment. Among them are proper orientation of the granular carbon transmitter, maximum line bit rates, and tolerable total harmonic distortion. The frequency and transient response of all acoustical transducers employed in the equipment are presented. The results of local and cross-country tests are summarized; also included is a summary of the actual operational experience over a period of two years from large numbers of units in use over the entire country."
"The telephone exchange cable plant may be a mixture of several gauges in a particular run. Predicting its electrical behavior precisely when only one gauge is involved is difficult at best. Gauge mixtures and the lack of accurate records preclude the computational course in the practical case. A method is given for the graphical analysis of cable attenuation obtained from measurements. A means for locating the pole and zero frequencies of the equalizer network is described, as is the use of a frequency response slide rule for rapidly verifying the results. In addition, it is shown that the use of a time-sharing computer can be helpful in specifying components and in the general administration of equalizer projects when large numbers are involved."
"Intermodulation noise in a frequency-division multiplex (FDM) system arises mainly from third-order nonlinearity in the repeater amplifiers. The way in which a biased semiconductor diode can be incorporated in the emitter feedback impedance of the output stage of each repeater so as to reduce this nonlinearity by compensation is described. It is shown that although it is not practicable to adjust the bias of each diode network for maximum compensation; a suitable standard bias that is used for all repeaters in the system can be chosen which will lead to the same result due to the statistical distribution in the phase of third-order intermodulation vectors from each repeater. The effects of transistor-diode-matching, group delay distortion and variation of compensation with output level, frequency, and temperature are discussed. It is concluded that in a practical 60-MHz system it should be possible to achieve a reduction of at least 6 dB in the third-order intermodulation noise in the worst channel."
"It is shown here that the method suggested by Chidambara (Barlett's equation) is a particular version of the general matrix modification formula[A + USV^{T}]^{-1} = A^{-1} - A^{-1}U[S^{-1}+ V^{T}A^{-1}U]^{-1}V^{T}A^{-1}and that the modification suggested by Chidambara is obtained from this general form."
"A graphical procedure using parameter plane theory is given for studying the stability of systems consisting of a linear time-invariant subsystem with two feedback time-varying gains."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A vector differential equation for the error due to sampling in closed-loop hybrid systems is developed using several approximations derived with Taylor series expansions. The equation is valid for both linear and nonlinear hybrid systems under the condition that the sampling period is small. The error equation is linear. Its homogeneous part is independent of how the hybrid system is subdivided into subsystems, but its forcing function depends on the characteristics of the analog and digital subsystems. Both parts of the error equation depend on the system state variables. The form of the equation shows that asymptotic sampling error depends on the first power of the sampling period and that the execution time of the digital subsystem has a predominant effect similar to that of the sampling period but weighted twice as heavily. The equation can be applied in compensating as well as evaluating hybrid systems. An example is included to illustrate the use and accuracy of the equations."
"An optimal control problem for a class of nonlinear distributed parameter systems is posed. By using a theorem of approximation theory, necessary and sufficient conditions upon the optimal controls are derived."
"This paper formulates the system equations, state and control space constraints, and a criterion functional for an elementary example of a problem in economic growth, and discusses some further interpretation of the underlying economic structure. Several examples are presented to illustrate particular features of control problems in economics; references to futher examples, and to more general work in mathematical economics, are cited."
"An error is corrected, and new material is added on maximizing the extent of the estimate of the stability region. In an example it is shown that the maximum-area estimate coincides with the estimate constructed by Kalman's method."
"A numerical algorithm for the construction of Liapunov functions is described. This algorithm is based upon the method of Szego and is applicable to a particular class of systems. The algorithm is described for second-order systems although extension to systems of higher order would appear to be possible."
"Nondeterministic differential games of imperfect information are considered, with particular emphasis on the case of a linear system, a quadratic cost functional, and independent white Gaussian noises additively corrupting the observable output measurements. Solutions are presented for a number of particular cases of this problem, including those in which one of the two controllers has either no information or, under certain additional restrictions, perfect measurements of the state vector. In each case the optimal control for each controller is shown to be closely related to that which would result by assuming a separation theorem to hold. Furthermore, the various terms in the resulting optimal cost are shown to be readily assignable to the appropriate contributing source, such as the optimal cost that would result if the problem were instead a deterministic one with perfect information, the effect of estimation errors, or the effect of measurement errors."
"This work is concerned with the optimal control of a discrete-time linear system with random parameters. It is assumed that the parameters of the system vary randomly during the process, namely, the parameters constitute sequences of random variables. These random variables are not necessarily independent. An important particular case occurs where there are unknown constant parameters in the system. The measurements of the state of the system contain additive noise. A quadratic function of the state and controller, with appropriate weighting, serves as the criterion function. The solutions for the open-loop controller and the open-loop feedback controller are presented. The method of solution is based on the dynamic programming approach which leads to functional recurrence equations."
"A class of linear systems are studied which are subject to sudden changes in parameter values. An algorithm similar in form to Kushner's stochastic maximum principle is derived and the relationship between these algorithms discussed. Systems in which the performance measure is quadratic are investigated in detail and a differential equation is derived which yields the optimal feedback gains."
"A general technique is presented to simulate on a digital computer a multidimensional stationary or nonstationary Gauss-Markov random process of specified autocorrelation function. The choice of a suitable time step is also discussed. The results are of interest in the simulation studies of systems which are forced by random inputs, e.g, control and communication systems."
"The evolution of the error caused by the amplitude quantization in digital control systems can be studied by introducing bounded disturbances at the points of the quantization. Such a formulation provides an upper bound for the actual quantization error. This paper introduces the problem of the quantization error in the light of the discrete-time optimum control theory. The determination of the worst possible effect of the error due to quantization is reduced to solving a common optimum control problem; the \"worst effect\" is defined as the maximum of a chosen performance criterion. For a design, a method is proposed for the minimization of the worst effect of the quantization error. Computational solutions illustrate the presentation."
"The problem considered is that of inferring asymptotic stability by examining higher order derivatives of a Liapunov function when examination of only the first derivative does not permit such an inference. It is shown that a seemingly plausible approach using only\\dot{V}and\\ddot{V}is vacuous. It is also shown that it is possible to infer asymptotic stability by examining\\dot{V}and\\ddot{V}, and perhaps\\ddot{V}."
"This paper presents a new method for realizing a rational transfer function matrix into an irreducible Jordan canonical form state equation. The method consists of two steps, first, to form a controllable state equation and then secondly, to obtain a controllable as well as observable realization by nonsingular transformations. If every denominator of the rational matrix is given in the factored form, then the proposed method can be carried out quite easily."
"A discrete-time linear optimal control problem with given initial and terminal times, state control constraints, and variable end points is set forth. Corresponding to this primal control problem, or maximization problem, is a dual linear control problem, or minimization problem. A dual maximum principle is proved with the aid of the duality theory of linear programming, where the dual of the Hamiltonian of the primal control problem is the Hamiltonian of the dual control problem. A discrete-time analog of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation is derived; and economic applications are discussed."
"It is shown that controllability of a linear system is essentially determined by the controllability of its limiting form. When the limit is time invariant, an especially simple controllability criterion emerges. Procedures for stabilizing a system based solely on the soultions to the limiting differential equations are also presented."
"The introduction of a proportional feedback around an on-off element yields a new on-off element whose dead zone and hysteresis are directly dependent on the amount of feedback. It is thus possible to study autooscillations by means of Tsypkin's method even in the case where the direct application of the classical approach leads to incorrect results. The same procedure leads to a new method for eliminating the limit cycle of an on-off feedback system. Some aspects of the problem are discussed when the on-off element is an electromagnetic relay."
"An iteration method which is not sensitive to small errors in the eigenvalues is developed for finding eigenvectors. The method finds the eigenvector of both the normal and transposed matrix. These eigenvectors can then be used in the Rayleigh quotient to improve the value for the eigenvalue."
"The problem of reducing the angular velocities of a space vehicle to zero is considered. The required control torques are found as functions of the angular momenta. Both linear and nonlinear time-invariant feedback control systems are determined. The method of solution is based on the \"inverse problem\" of optimal control."
"The calculus of variations is applied to the problem of finding the optimal control for linear systems with quadratic costs which are not necessarily positive definite. The conjugate point condition is transformed to an explicit condition upon the parameters of the problem, in the one-dimensional case for arbitrary costs and in then-dimensional case for final costs only. The expressions for the optimal controls are given. A numerical example of a second-order system is solved."
"This paper introduces the concept of recoverability as a design consideration. A simple time-optimal regulator problem is modified to explore the feasibility of imposing a recoverability constraint as an explicit restriction on the system state during control synthesis. The results are summarized as two theorems. Comparative numerical data for both unconstrained and constrained trajectories are presented."
"Two types of linear quadratic problems are investigated. The first is associated with problems in which the final time is specified and the second with problems in which the final time is given implicitly. McReynolds and Bryson [1] have presented a sweep method for solving linear quadratic problems. This technique generates a feedback control law. The applicability of this method depends on the existence of the inverse of a matrix and the finiteness of two other matrices. Conditions assuring these properties are presented. The results of Dreyfus [2] for the first type of linear quadratic problem are extended to problems of the second type. In addition, it is shown that there are two special cases of this problem for which the desired inverse exists at the final time. For these cases, only two matrix equations need to be solved rather than the three matrix equations for the general case."
"The question of complete observability in systems decoupled via state-variable feedback is considered. A sufficient condition that guarantees the observability of the decoupled system is derived."
"The compensation procedure suggested previously is extended and applied to a contactor servo to eliminate the limit cycles caused by the presence of hysteresis in the contactor element and the backlash in the output gears. The result is found effective for any shape ofx(t)and for any form of the nonlinear characteristic succeeding the linear plantG(s)."
"The synthesis of the time-optimal control function for a second-order linear system with a constant time delay in the position variable has been accomplished. The maximum principle of Pontryagin for systems with delay was used in the synthesis. Expressions for the control function, trajectory, and limit cycle are presented as well as a switching curve for the system which was constructed numerically."
"Even when the optimal control is known, it may be physically impossible to attain it in practice. Bang-bang control, for example, needs inertialess controllers. Here, for a restricted class of optimal control problems, the following question is answered, \"If optimal control cannot be achieved, what alternative criterion for judging suboptimal controls can be introduced?\""
"Of fundamental importance in the theory of linear invariant systems are the conditions under which one can find a feedback controller which will result in a stable closed-loop system, whether the plant is stable or not. This correspondence proves the intuitively reasonable proposition that observability of the unstable modes of the plant by the available measurements, and controllability of these unstable modes by the control constitute necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a compensator which stabilizes the closed-loop system."
"The problem is considered of characterizing the improvement in estimating the state of a linear system when filtering is replaced by smoothing. It is found that when the optimal filter is exponentially asymptotically stable, a smoothing lag equal to several time constants associated with this filter yields practically all the possible improvement. The extent of improvement, as measured by an error variance matrix, is also found."
"The solution to the smoothing problem for a linear discrete-time system can be obtained directly from Kalman filtering theory by first converting it into a special case of the standard linear filtering problem. This conversion is accomplished by suitably defining a new state vector which contains all the relevant information about the past history of the system."
"The problem of optimizing a class of discrete-time stochastic systems in such a way as to make a prescribed set of terminal conditions \"most likely\" is treated. The class of systems in question is described by a set of time-varying difference equations which are linear in the state and nonlinear in the control where the performance index is quadratic in the state but not necessarily in the control. Random disturbances are present in both the plant equations and the observation equations. \"Hard\" constraints on the set of admissible controls are also permitted. The equivalence of this problem to two \"standard\" deterministic optimization problems is demonstrated."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The computation of an optimal feedback control policy for a nonlinear system disturbed by multiplicative noise may be facilitated by the use of a stochastic automaton as a system model An algorithm is presented which makes use both of the linearity properties of the automaton and of the continuity properties of the original system model to determine an automaton feedback controller which closely approximates the optimal continuous state controller for a stationary stochastic process. Its application to a specific problem involving nonlinear conditionally stable dynamics and multiplicative noise is considered."
"It is shown that the state feedback matrix of a linear system optimal with respect to a quadratic performance index can be expanded in a MacLaurin series in parameters which change the order of the system. The first two terms of this series are employed in a near-optimum design for a high-order plant. The result of the near-optimum design is superior to that achieved by a conventional low-order design, while the amount of computation is considerably less than that required for a high-order design. An example of a second-order design for a fifth-order plant is given."
"The purpose of this paper is to establish a guide for the employment of a digital differential analyzer (DDA) as a control element. An analysis of the performance limitations imposed by a fixed point scaling procedure is presented in terms of bandwidth and a canonical realization for transfer functions. Roughly, the results are that for a DDA ofQiterations/s and for a resolution of one part in q-1: 1) the bandwidth isqQrad/s 2) the poles ofH(s)must lie in a circle of radiusqQabouts = 03) the significant poles ofD(z)must lie in a circle of radiusqaboutz = 1."
"Abstract-Let [X I , X2, - - ) be the states of a nonlinear dynamical system. Given noisy observations of the states, a sequence x.,, xz, - - - ) of estimates is desired such that X, converges to X n as n increases. Pearson [l] suggested a sequence of estimates and proved mean-square convergence. Convergence with probability 1 is proved using an approach which hopefully will lead to further results."
"The notion of truncated function is used as a new approach to establish controllability criteria for stationary linear multivariable systems. The method presented provides a simple technique to test the controllability of a system represented by its inputs and initial conditions transfer matrices. In addition, the formulation of the problem leads to a very straightforward method for deriving optimal control laws for certain classes of minimum fuel and minimum time control problems."
"A new form is presented for the transient solution of the matrix Riccati equation associated with the linear optimal regulator and filter problems for time-invariant plants. The solution is expressed in a form such that the transient terms decay exponentially with time, leaving the steady-state terms. In contrast to the automatic synthesis program (ASP) matrix iteration method, the negative exponential solution does not code essential information in numbers of widely differing magnitudes."
"The object of this correspondence paper is to cover several aspects of invariances of the root locus to poles and zeros shifting for different pole-zero configurations. The sufficient conditions to produce such invariances are presented."
"These comments on a previous correspondence show that the method exposed is a trivial consequence of Lill's method. Furthermore, the Hurwitz restriction is removed from the polynomial."
"In most practical applications, dynamic systems can be modeled by differential equations with prescribed forms but unknown parameters. An analog method is developed for identifying these unknown parameters. The method is based on the learning model concept. Therefore, it is capable of performing on-line identification in the presence of noise. It has shown that single-variable and multivariable linear systems can be easily identified. Also the same algorithm is applicable to zero memory nonlinear systems. Hence the proposed method is regarded as very useful Various examples simulated on a digital computer are presented and the results are good."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method analogous to that developed by Jordan and Polak is used to determine the optimal pulse-amplitude pulse-width open-loop control of continuous systems. Some recent results by Nardizzi and Bekey are checked and an extension to the case of nonequally spaced sampling instants is shown."
"A Popov-like stability criterion is derived for use in the analysis of a class of time-varying discrete control systems. The class of systems consists of a time-varying gain followed by a causal time-invariant discrete convolution operator. The stability criterion provides a simple graphical means of obtaining stability information which complements the existing information for this class of systems."
"A procedure for the generation of Liapunov functions for time-varying nonlinear systems is described. A composite differential one-form is derived from the basic system equations. A line integral of the one-form, withtheld constant, produces the candidate for a Liapunov function. An example is included."
"Weiss and Infante [1], [2] developed sufficient conditions for finite-time stability of a vector differential equation. It is shown here that some of their theorems actually imply the stronger property of uniform finite-time stability. A theorem is presented which gives sufficient conditions for stability but not necessarily uniform stability. It is shown that this theorem can in certain cases yield better results than those of Weiss and Infante's corresponding theorem."
"New proofs are given for the recently demonstrated total symmetry and complete simultaneity properties for the companion canonic form for single-input linear time-invariant controllable systems. These proofs result in a convenient closed-form expression for the complete simultaneity property. The use of these properties to generate by onenth-order sensitivity model all the sensitivity functions\\frac{\\partialx_{i}}{\\partialv_{j}}|_v^{0}, i=1,...,n, j=1,...,r,for a single-input linear time-invariant controllablenth-order system which depends onrdifferent parameters is reviewed. This method represents an improvement over known methods for generating the sensitivity functions, which generally require a composite dynamic system of ordern(r+1). This result is then extended to the case of multi-input normal linear systems, where, at most,2m-1dynamicnth-order systems are needed in addition to the system to generate all the sensitivity functions of the system state with respect to any number of parameters (mis the dimension ofu). It is shown that the algebraic calculations that must be made in them-input case are much less thanmtimes the calculations needed for the single-input case. The implications of these results for the computer aided sensitivity analysis of systems are discussed."
"Two possible ways of introducing a trajectory sensitivity vector into the closed-loop linear optimal control problem, their relationship, and their relative merits are discussed."
"In Anderson a connection of two types of stability: Liapunov stability, reflecting the internal stability of a system, and bounded-input bounded-output stability, reflecting the external stability of a system, has been established for time-varying linear finite-dimensional dynamic systems which may be represented in a special canonical form. This correspondence extends the connection to time-varying linear finite-dimensional discrete-time systems."
"Optimal control laws usually require the complete measurement of the plant state. However, in practice one often has available only a small number of measurements. A procedure is developed that leads to a dynamic feedback control law which is a function of any given set of measurements. The resulting closed-loop system is optimal for all initial states of the system in the sense of minimizing a quadratic performance index. The order of the controller depends upon the observability properties of the plant. The development is extended to time-variable problems."
"The question of inverting linear time-invariant dynamical systems has been of interest to control engineers for many years. An example of the nonstate-variable approach and application of this concept is the very well known work of Bode and Shannon in 1950. With the integration of state-variable descriptions and techniques into systems problems, the question has recently reappeared in a somewhat more complicated guise. Basically, the problem of inverting such dynamical systems is to determine the existence of the inverse, its properties, and its construction in terms of the matrices which characterize its state description. The first general study of existence appears to be due indirectly to Brockett and Mesarovic in 1965, and the first general construction seems to have been proposed by Youla and Dorato in 1966. Neither of these works was intended to develop a substantial insight into the properties of the inverse. The present work introduces the concept of the inherent integration associated with a dynamical system, i.e., the number of integrations which no inverse dynamical system can remove unless ideal differentiators are introduced. The existence of the inverse is discussed in terms of a determination of the inherent integration, and the construction which realizes this minimum number of integrations is given. The existence tests introduced are at worst one-half as complex as that of Brockett and Mesarovic and the construction offers a substantial improvement in conceptual simplicity over that of Youla and Dorato. The results are made possible by recognizing an essential equivalence with an associated problem in real sequential circuits and appear to be applicable to related problems in sensitivity, estimation, and game theory."
"Minimal time control of linear time-varying processes with bounded control amplitudes and rates is discussed. Based on the maximum principle, necessary conditions are given which include a specific modified adjoint solution. Two additional conditions that are associated with this modified adjoint solution are derived. These conditions are then utilized to develop a systematic method of constructing the extremal control as an explicit time function. The construction scheme consists of a set of decision rules in the form of inequalities. These decision rules are implemented on a digital computer. The computer program basically checks out the decision rules and determines the appropriate set of prestored parameters, which describes each extremal control. To obtain the minimal time control from the extremal controls, a point-by-point search from the grid on a hypercylindrical surface is required. As an illustration, the computer program is applied to the Ranger Block III attitude control system."
"The goal of the specific optimal estimation problem is to achieve near-optimal (minimum variance) estimation using a structure that is easier to implement than the optimal solution. One chooses a reasonable configuration for the filter in which certain parameters are unspecified and then selects the parameters so that its performance is optimized. The problem is formulated as a two-point boundary-value problem resulting from consideration of the covariance of error of the estimate and application of the matrix-minimum principle. The examples presented indicate that near-optimal results can be obtained using a filter designed in this way."
"The design of a solid-state digital synchro converter has been established. Its steady-state and transient performance characteristics surpass those of a mechanically coupled 60-Hz to 400-Hz system, in which position errors and time lags degrade the performance. The digital design acts as an interface between a 60-Hz synchro transmitter and a 400-Hz synchro receiver. The heart of the design is the combination of a solid-state digital phase control circuit and two frequency conversion flip-flops."
"The problem of the specification of the order and structure of a linear dynamic compensator in order to obtain arbitrary pole placement in a closed-loop linear system comprised of the compensator in cascade with a linear plant is discussed. A significant application of the theory is to the design of optimal systems in those cases where not all the state variables of the plant can be measured. These results permit a completely algorithmized approach to the design of compensators for linear systems."
"The problem of how to select the total number and the spacings of the observations optimally when a constant cost is incurred for each observation taken is discussed. Approximate expressions for the criterion function with a fixed number of observations are obtained and are used to determine the optimal total number of observations. For a class of multidimensional systems with a dominant eigenvalue, the problem is shown to reduce to that for scalar systems. Detailed discussion is then carded out for scalar systems including some sensitivity study."
"The transfluxor can serve as the analog storage element which is needed to couple the digital process control computer to the analog process. It stores an analog command in a few milliseconds, and the value is sensed nondestructively for an indefinitely long period. In this system, a closed loop is used to set the analog level, with proportional and integral compensation to modulate the size of setting pulses. The accuracy obtained is typically 0.1 percent at all scale positions in a time of 20 ms. The characteristics of the transfluxor which make setting accuracy difficult are its variable gain, variable time lag in response to a series of equal pulses, dead zone with a spurious output, and slow magnetic anomaly effect."
"Results of analog computer experiments are presented which indicate that the phenomenon known traditionally as asynchronous quenching is actually synchronization at large values of the detuning parameter, as had been proposed earlier by Pengilley and Milner. The relationship of these results to earlier analyses of van der Pol and Kobzarev is discussed and certain shortcomings of the Minorsky stroboscope analysis are indicated."
"In [1]-[4] new algorithms for determining optimal control of non-linear systems are described. This correspondence provides by means of an error analysis alternative justification for the neglect of certain terms in the derivation of those algorithms."
"Optimum control theory results are applied to find a relationship among the linear region limits of the error, of the output velocity, and of the output acceleration of a typical linear system, to provide minimum time synchronization for inputs causing saturation. This relationship is extended to the case of synchronization to a reference moving at a constant velocity."
"A linear error-sampled control system can be designed to track inputs of the form tkwith zero error in finite time."
"An adaptive sampling technique utilizing the first three terms of a Taylor series expansion about thenth sampling instant for the error signal in an error-sampled feedback control system is presented. The necessary rules for determining the sign convention used in applying the technique are given along with an example illustrating the method. The procedure basically depends on the determination of a preselected constant difference between successive sampling instants."
"An unbiased estimator for real-time parameter identification and state estimation for constant linear discrete systems is presented. Bias correction is accomplished by taking account of the mean value of second-order terms which are generally neglected. The inclusion of the bias correction results in better performance for a quadratic cost criterion."
"A method of realization of a linear time-invariant system based on the moments of the impulse-response matrix is proposed. For this purpose some characteristics of the matrices of the moments are set forth. Then a method is given which makes it possible to construct a minimal realization."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A hybrid implementation for generalized digital filters in canonical form is presented, which uses analog elements for multiplication and summation and digital elements for storage (time delay). The hybrid controller is designed to realize virtually any compensation function up to three zeroes over three poles in thezdomain with any sampling frequency up to several thousand hertz. Experimental results are presented for an example system."
"A set of equations is presented for designing an optimum Kalman filter for a continuous linear dynamic system with colored measurement noise only. Included are the optimum Kalman filter variance, gain, and mechanization equations in a form which can be computerized easily and requires a minimum of engineering effort."
"A basic algorithm for the calculation of pseudoinverses is presented and verified. Two published algorithms are shown to be special cases of the basic algorithm."
"A control system is described which is one of the major functional subdivisions of the apparatus in an experiment to measure Newton's universal gravitational constantG. In this experiment small masses are allowed to accelerate toward larger masses for a relatively long period of time. From the measured acceleration and the known magnitude of the masses, the gravitational force can be determined. The distance between the masses is maintained essentially constant by utilizing a rotary table on which the masses are mounted in such a way that the small masses are free to move or rotate toward the larger masses which are fixed with respect to the table. The purpose of the control system is to maintain the angle and, therefore, maintain a constant distance between the fixed and movable mass systems. Tracking errors between the mass systems of less than one second of an arc have been maintained."
"The problem of finding an optimal control in linear discrete systems with time delays in both the state variables and control variables is studied."
"Krylov's algorithm is used to unify and extend recent work on relating a matrix to its companion form and the companion matrix to the Schwarz form. A general solution to the \"inverse problem of stability\" is presented and illustrated."
"It is shown that, for a class of stochastic systems, i.e., those in which the cost increases as the distance between the stochastic and the deterministic controls increases, the optimal stochastic control is the conditional expectation of the deterministic control, given the measurement history."
"The optimal discrete adaptive Kalman filter, as presented by Magill, necessitates the iterative calculation of a weighting coefficient for each value of the quantized parameter space. This correspondence proposes a new recursive algorithm for the calculation of the weighting coefficients and compares it to the weighting coefficient algorithm of Magill. When there areLelements in the a priori known parameter space, it is shown that the memory and computational savings include 1)Lmemory allocations, 2)Lscalar additions per iteration, and 3)Lscalar multiplications per iteration."
"Wiener's theory of nonlinear systems is limited by the special requirements for its implementation. A generalization is considered to make the technique more universally applicable."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two related methods are developed for designing linear feedback controllers for nonlinear plants with initial states that are unknown but restricted to a given domain. It is shown that the well-known neighboring optimum method of controller design can be considered as a special case of the methods proposed here."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to apply to systems of the Lur'e type a design technique for maximizing the extent of the region of asymptotic stability. A specific example is given."
"In the context of modern control theory, optimum performance of a system is of primary concern. In most applications, however, one must be satisfied with something short of optimum performance as a consequence of the use of a suboptimal controller or plant parameter variations. Using a scalar measure for the deviation of the actual performance, a general approach to the evaluation of suboptimality and sensitivity for control and filtering processes is suggested. Some specific results involving only algebraic conditions are obtained."
"Optimal control systems are developed for response to changing load demands by on-line analog solution of a set of matrix Riccati equations. The feedback network parameters are optimized continuously whatever the pattern of load demand or of unplanned plant excursions. Solution is essentially instantaneous by the correct choice of integrator gains. Nonlinearities can be handled by a suitable choice of performance index or by a continuous adjustment of a reference trajectory to be close to the optimum. Plants with positive or negative temperature coefficients can be controlled. The functioning of such control systems is verified by means of a simulated reactor plant."
"A proof of convergence of the conjugate gradient method of Hestenes and Stiefel in a Hilbert space setting for Fréchet differentiable functionals is given. The proof is based upon uniform continuity of the gradient and is similar to that used by Goldstein for the steepest descent method."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A Robbins-Monro [1] stochastic approximation procedure for identifying a finite memory time-discrete time-stationary linear system from noisy input-output measurements is developed. Two algorithms are presented to sequentially identify the linear system. The first one is derived, based on the minimization of the mean-square error between the unknown system and a model, and is shown to develop a bias which depends only on the variance of the input signal measurement error. Under the assumption that this variance is known a priori, a second algorithm is developed which, in the limit, identifies the unknown system exactly. The case when the covariance matrix of the random input sequence is not positive definite is also considered."
"A method is developed for the numerical approximation of the Laplace transform of a given function of time. This method is an extension of the method proposed in [2] An example is included which compares the accuracy of the original method and the extension proposed."
"A procedure is developed for designing nearly optimal linear regulators for systems subject to large parameter variations. The technique is applicable to the general multivariable linear system and yields a feedback controller which is relatively easy to implement. Approximate controllers are derived by expanding the gain matrix in a Taylor series expansion in powers of the variable parameter. Gain is adjusted on the basis of measured or estimated values of the parameter. The technique is developed for the case where the cost functional is an explicit function of the variable parameter in order to achieve similar controlled time responses over a wide range of parameter variation. A computational example is presented to illustrate the approach."
"A new algorithm for constructing an inverse of a multivariable linear dynamical system is presented. This algorithm, which is considerably more efficient than previous methods, also incorporates a relatively simple criterion for determining if an inverse system exists. New insight into the structure of a system inverse is gained by consideration of the inverse system representations resulting from the algorithm. A precise bound on the number of output differentiations required is obtained as well as a bound on the total number of integrators and differentiators necessary to realize the inverse. This latter bound is equal to the order of the original system. A further advantage of the algorithm and theory developed is that it is applicable to both time-invariant systems and time-variable systems which satisfy certain regularity conditions. One application is also given: a complete description of the set of initial states necessary and sufficient for a specified function to be the output of an invertible system."
"This paper presents a significant improvement over the hitherto available linear dominant system design techniques for guaranteeing system response within prescribed bounds, despite large plant parameter variations. Noteworthy features of the new technique are as follows. 1) The mapping of the plant parameter space into the closed-loop system space is exact and permits application to a much wider and more realistic class of problems than previously possible. 2) It is shown how the loop transmission bandwidth may be made very much smaller than in the previous designs, thus considerably extending the applicability of the dominant approach because of its drastically reduced sensitivity to internal noise."
"A variational problem arising in the study of least time controls is formulated in terms of norms of functionals on suitable Banach spaces. The existence of a solution is demonstrated by an appeal to the Hahn-Banach theorem, and the form of solution is developed from the equality conditions for Hölder's inequality. The systems being controlled are linear, but not necessarily time invariant, and the results may accordingly find application in the control of batch processing systems."
"Let{X_{n}}be a Markov process with finite state space and transition probabilitiesp_{ij}(u_{i}, v_{i})depending on uiandv_{i}.State 0 is the capture state (where the game ends;p_{oi} \\equiv \\delta_{oi});u = {u_{i}}andv = {v_{i}}are the pursuer and evader strategies, respectively, and are to be chosen so that capture is advanced or delayed and the costC_{i^{u,v}} = E[\\Sum_{0}^{\\infty} k (u(X_{n}), v(X_{n}), X_{n}) | X_{0} = i]is minimaxed (or maximined), wherek(\\alpha, \\beta, 0) \\equiv 0. The existence of a saddle point and optimal strategy pair or e-optimal strategy pair is considered under several conditions. Recursive schemes for computing the optimal or ε-optimal pairs are given."
"The \"successive sweep method,\" a Newton-Raphson algorithm in function space, based upon [1]-[3], is applied to the computation of optimal solutions to control problems which are characterized by terminal constraints and discontinuities in the control functions. The computational technique of using piecewise constant gains is introduced for the successive sweep method in order to reduce computer storage. Two examples are considered. The first example concerns the three-dimensional attitude control of an orbiting vehicle. The second example is the two-dimensional transfer of a low thrust vehicle in a gravitational field."
"An optimal control program based on steepest descent techniques is developed for systems described by differential-difference equations. It is shown that the design of signals for pulse-position modulation over the incoherent Gaussian white noise channel leads to systems of the above type. Numerical results are given for a practical design problem."
"Simultaneous use of first-order partial differential equations and ordinary differential equations, instead of differential-difference equations, is presented to define systems involving transportation lag processes. Variational analysis is carried out for the system to obtain an optimal control law which minimizes a specified objective function, and the strong maximum condition which has to be satisfied by the optimal control is derived and discussed. The theory developed is rather general and may be applied to a class of systems wider than those defined by differential-difference equations."
"The method of steepest ascent is well documented in the literature [1]. However, its application to problems of high order (over 20) is not straightforward [2]. One problem that arises in the application of the method of steepest ascent, particularly to problems of high order and generally to problems of any order, is the pinpointing of errors in programming or in deriving the adjoint equations. This correspondence presents a systematic method for pinpointing such errors. First, a derivation of equations pertinent to the method of steepest ascent as developed by Bryson et al. [1] is presented. Then checks on the adjoints are followed by an illustrative example of the use of these checks."
"This correspondence shows the relationship between Kalman-Bucy (K-B) state estimation and blended-model state estimation-a technique used in the aerospace industry. The purpose in presenting this comparison is to aid in the interpretation of the K-B filter when used in a control system and, hopefully, to give the designer a more intuitive \"feel\" for application of the K-B filter."
"Given the Lyapunov matrix equationA'P + PA + 2\\sigmaQ = 0where σ is some positive scalar, a necessary and sufficient condition for the real parts of the eigenvalues ofAto be less than -σ is thatP - Qis negative definite. The condition provides an upper bound to the solution of the Lyapunov matrix equation and is useful in the design of minimum-time or minimum-cost linear control systems."
"An extension of Bellman's method for the numerical inversion of the Laplace transform is discussed. This extension is theoretically equivalent to the method of Lanczos. Tables of coefficients are given which facilitate the inversion of the Laplace transform with the aid of a desk computer."
"In problems of linear digital filtering and recursive estimation, a matrix identity (1) is often met. Here this matrix identity is derived by use of matrix projection operator's and their properties. This deviation is novel, straightforward, and of tutorial value."
"Linear discrete optimal control systems where an optimal control for a given cost functional is not unique are considered. A second cost functional is introduced, and then from among the optimal controls which minimize the original cost functional, a control which minimizes the second cost functional is chosen."
"Some properties of the portions of the root locus having a negative parameter that are quite different from those of the ordinary (positive) locus are presented. To illustrate some of these properties, it was necessary to introduce certain new concepts."
"Errors in the measurement of a trajectory produce errors in the model of the trajectory and its extrapolation. This correspondence presents the extrapolation accuracy of four trajectory models as a function of the extrapolation, the number of independent measurements, and the accuracy of the measurements."
"Three minimax sensitivity criteria are used to synthesize filters for estimating the state of a simple first-order plant when large uncertainties in dynamic and/or statistical parameters of the plant and measurement system are present. Two design examples involving unknown plant bandwidth and unknown plant input noise covariance are worked out in detail. Graphical comparison of the error performance of the three minimax sensitivity filters with that of the optimal filter is presented for each case."
"The theoretical implications of the concept of \"uniformity\" in the theory of finite-time stability are discussed. A theorem, giving sufficient conditions for a general class of nonlinear time-varying systems to be nonuniformly finite-time stable under perturbing forces, is stated and proved which reduces to a recently reported result when the forcing function is zero. A similar theorem for uniform finite-time stability under perturbing forces is an immediate consequence."
"Matrices WiandN_{i},which result from application of Krylov's algorithm to the matricesAandBrelated byA = (B + I)(B - I)^{-1},are shown to be row equivalent, i.e.,N_{i} = M_{i}W_{1}. This result is applied to solution of the Lyapunov matrix equation for discrete-time systems,A'LA - L = -K."
"Attention is given to time-varying linear dynamic systems of a discrete or continuous time variable. For this class of systems the question of the existence and form of an inverse system is analyzed together with the question of decoupling a fixed plant by state variable feedback. It is shown that recent results (see [1], [2]) on the decoupling of stationary systems have a partial counterpart in the setting of nonstationary systems. A synopsis of the main results may be obtained by reading Theorem 1 and its corollaries."
"Optimum Kalman filter design often requires estimation of the true value of an unknown parameter vector. In Magill's adaptive procedure, the parameter space must be quantized. An accurate estimate of the true value requires fine quantization, but this results in an unreasonable number of elemental filters. Iterative techniques that require only binary quantization of each unknown parameter are proposed. This reduces the number of elemental filters without sacrificing accuracy of the parameter estimate."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A feedback control system can be structured for linear nonstationary process and measurement systems comprising a deterministic filter whose output is the independent variable of a linear control law. Subject to uniform controllability and observability, the filter and control gains can be specified to provide arbitrary and separable stability properties. If the filter gain is selected to produce a stabilizing effect on the state estimate, and the control gain is selected to produce a stabilizing effect on the process, the filter and control gains are shown to satisfy matrix Riccati differential equations. This suggests the use of stochastic optimal control theory when there is no quantitative measure of optimality, but it is desirable to assure the qualitative property that feedback be stabilizing. A concise derivation of the Kalman-Bucy filter is included in an appendix to illustrate the facility of approaching optimal estimation problems with the methods of stability theory."
"Some necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for a servo problem, involving ann-dimensional plant and ap-dimensional command-input generator, to be reducible to ann-dimensional regulator problem."
"The Riccati equation does not necessarily give a positive definite solution when the plant has finite escape time in the time interval considered."
"A summary of methods proposed by Cavin and Bertram for bounding quantization errors in hybrid control systems is presented. Their methods are compared and similarities in the methods are noted. An apparent error by Cavin is demonstrated."
"The method of orthogonal projection is used to derive the equations for optimally estimating the state of a nonstationary linear discrete system with multiple time delays. A Kalman-type filter is developed, along with the necessary recursive error and cross error covariance matrix equations. A numerical example is included."
"A solution to the optimum linear smoothing problem is presented in which the smoother is interpreted as a combination of two optimum linear filters. This result is obtained from the well-known equation for the maximum likelihood combination of two independent estimates and equivalence to previous formulations is demonstrated. Forms of the solution which are convenient for practical computation are developed."
"Upper and lower bounds on the error covariance matrices of the Kalman and Wiener filters for linear finite state time-invariant system are derived. These bounds yield a measure of the relative estimation accuracy of these filters and provide a practical tool for determining when the implementational complexity of a Kalman filter can be justified. The calculation of these bounds requires little more than the determination of the corresponding Wiener filter."
"Finite difference methods are used to implement the solution to optimal control of distributed parameter systems. The control is assumed to be intrinsic to the partial differential equation (PDE) as well as continuous, such that the calculus of variations is used to obtain the control law. Several important principles are developed to formulate the difference approximations to the partial differential equations which describe the system and the control law. An iterative method of solution is employed on these two equations. The convergence of the iteration is assured by stability considerations of the finite difference expressions."
"A minimum principle is obtained for discrete-time stochastic systems described by the stochastic difference equationx_{k+1} = A_{k}x_{k} + \\phi_{k}(u_{k})+w_{k}where\\{w_{k}, k = 0, ... ,N - \\}is la sequence of independent random vector variables. The control action ukis constrained to belong to a compact set Uk, and the set\\phi_{k}(U_{k}), k = 0,..., N - 1is convex. The system is open-loop."
"Optimal control theory is applied to a serve problem described by linear plant dynamics and a nonquadratic performance index. The performance index consists of the sum of positive semidefinite homogeneous multinomial forms of the error between plant states and a given input. It is shown that by adding conveniently chosen higher multinomial forms to the performance index, the optimal control law can be obtained in closed-form as a nonlinear function of the error between the controllable states and the input vector."
"Two new methods for the solution of state equations of a linear time-invariant system are suggested. These methods are based on Romberg's algorithm and utilize the special form of the function to be integrated. The suggested methods are compared with existing ones."
"A definition of decoupling is presented which is simple, intuitive, and which brings into the open the class of decoupling feedback matrices. Using this definition, the necessary and sufficient conditions for decoupling obtained in [1] are rederived."
"A fine positioning technique based on the small displacement that can be obtained around a stepping position by applying differential currents to the motor windings is discussed. A linear mathematical model of the motor operating in this fashion is derived from the analysis of the motor and confirmed by a frequency response test of the motor."
"A computer program for finding the minimal realizations of transfer function matrices is described. An example is included to illustrate the procedure."
"Matrix norms that satisfy the Schwarz inequality are used to determine upper bounds for the error in some common computations involving the matrix exponential function."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for stability with probability 1 are developed for the class of linear stochastic systems. A simple technique for constructing quadratic stochastic Lyapunov functions is presented which entails the solution to ann \\times nlinear matrix equation."
"A single-loop linear system with a time-invariant stable blockGin the direct path and a time-varying gain in the feedback path is analyzed for asymptotic stability in the Popov framework by way of admitting noncausal \"multipliers\" in the stability criterion. It is shown that an auto-correlation bound, analogous to O'Shea's cross-correlation bounds [1], results in a constraint on dk/dt more restrictive than that of Gruber and Willems [2]."
"The definition and development of a modified discrete describing function, referred to as dual input discrete describing function, is considered. High-frequency signal is injected into the non-linearity to quench the limit cycles in closed-loop autonomous relay-type sampled-data systems. An analytic procedure is described, which aims at deriving the dual input discrete describing function for a relay in theZdomain."
"A method of identification of a process delay time is suggested in conditions when the delay is varying slowly and cannot be estimated by direct measure, and in which also the process input is not available for measurement. A cross correlation function is suggested as a means of evaluating the process delay time so that the system can be adapted to the new conditions necessary for acceptable performance."
"A method is proposed for identifying linear distributed parameter systems from measurements on the system and inputs. Based on characteristics, the method is direct and converges rapidly for the class of problems discussed."
"Two commonly sought characteristics of a digital controller are conveniently combined in a so-called comb filter [1], [2]. Such filters are frequently used for bandpass filtering in digital communications systems but are not widely used in digital control systems. These characteristics are phase lead, such as obtained by digitization of a conventional lead network, and high-frequency notching to remove some unwanted signal and its harmonics."
"It is demonstrated that feedback delay in a linear system leads naturally to a state formulation with delays in the control variable. Equations that reduce to 'normal form' equations for the nondelay case are given for a single-input single-output system with a single delay. The system coefficient matrices are given as solutions of linear equations involving the coefficients in the input-output representation."
"A class of multi-input multi-output systems is considered in which the zeros of the transfer function matrix remain invariant with respect to a form of state variable feedback."
"An example of decoupling in linear distributive systems is presented. Attention is focused on the interaction of feedback and input-output coupling. Avenues for further research are suggested by the example."
"The problem of transforming a single-input single-output time-variable linear system to the phase-variable canonical form has been considered. A simpler method of finding the transformation matrix is presented. Also, a different proof is given to show that uniform controllability is a necessary and sufficient condition for a nonsingular transformation to exist."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"If\\dot{X} = AX + BU, whereUis \"discretized\" white noise (Uis piece-wise constant and the constants are uncorrelated random variables), and it is assumed thatE{X(t)U'(t)} = O, then the following covariance related jump equation results:(d/dt)E{XX'} = E{(d/dt)(XX')} + BQB'.Qis the covariance associated withU. The relation of this phenomena to the idealized problem withE{U(t) U'(\\tau)} = Q\\delta(t - \\tau)is considered, and ramifications for digital simulation are discussed."
"Limit-cycle oscillations can occur in recursive digital controllers, due to the finite resolution of the computational data word. Controllers are usually formed from first- and second-order structures, arranged in parallel, in cascade, or in a combination of these. A first-order structure cannot sustain a stable limit cycle, but a second-order structure can. A simple criterion, based on the describing function of a quantizer, is developed and presented for predicting the amplitudes and frequencies of quantizer-induced limit-cycle oscillations in second-order digital filter structures."
"The problem of estimating the statexof a linear process in the presence of a constant but unknown bias vectorbis considered. This bias vector influences the dynamics and/or the observations. It is shown that the optimum estimate\\hat{x}of the state can be expressed as\\hat{x} = x + V_{x}\\hat{b}(1) where\\tilde{x}is the bias-free estimate, computed as if no bias were present,\\hat{b}is the optimum estimate of the bias, and Vxis a matrix which can be interpreted as the ratio of the covariance of\\tilde{x}and\\hat{b}to the variance of\\hat{b}. Moreover,\\hat{b}can be computed in terms of the residuals in the bias-free estimate, and the matrix Vxdepends only on matrices which arise in the computation of the bias-free estimates. As a result, the computation of the optimum estimate\\tilde{x}is effectively decoupled from the estimate of the bias\\hat{b}, except for the final addition indicated by (1)."
"This paper presents a very effective, large step, parametric method for solving fixed time, minimum energy, discrete optimal control problems with linear plants, and convex constraints on the terminal state. The reason for using parametrization is that it removes the usual severe ill-conditioning effects."
"In this paper, a triple-mode control strategy is adopted in order to provide a near optimal stable transient response. The design of the controller is discussed, and its applicability is proven on an analog simulation. The controller's use in an experimental rig consisting of an inertially loaded electrohydraulic control system is described. Analog and experimental results are given and show that as loading increases, stability is maintained, cavitation is avoided, and response time is minimized. These results are shown to be a significant improvement over those from the system operated proportionally."
"A new method for finding the capture region and its internal structure is presented for a class of pursuit-evasion problems. In this technique, the optimal behavior is found for the two vehicles acting independently and then combined geometrically. The method is illustrated for the Problem of Two Cars."
"The design of systems with a component subject to failure may include a discrete renewal capability to counter the degradation in performance caused by improper operation of the failed component. A solution is presented to the problem of determining the optimal use of available renewal capability for first-order time-varying linear systems with a quadratic performance index, using an exponential model of component failure. The solution is extended quasi optimally to linear systems of arbitrary order. The renewal policy determined is performance-adaptive in the sense that it depends on the failure and renewal histories of the system and on their relation to future operating requirements. The renewal policy is determined with respect to other control variables to insure overall optimal performance. A discrete stage variable is introduced to specify the system operating condition. The optimal control and renewal policy within each stage is specified by a pair of Riccati equations whose solutions are precomputed. The method avoids quantization of continuous-valued state variables, thereby lessening the effects of the curse of dimensionality."
"Randomly sampled linear systems with linear or non-linear feedback loops are studied by a stochastic Lyapunov function method. The input in this paper is assumed zero; driven systems will be treated in a later paper. Improved criteria for stability (with prebability one, onsth moments > 1, or in mean-square) are given when the sequence of holding times are independent. The method is relatively straightforward to apply, especially in comparison with the direct methods, and allows the study with nonlinear feedback or nonstationary holding times. A randomly sampled Lur'e problem is studied. Numerical results, describing some interesting phenomena, such as, jitter stabilized systems are presented."
"Sufficient conditions are found for the existence of positive definite functions of state which are nonincreasing in time along any trajectory of an autonomous system. The class of systems considered is quite general, and no restriction is made concerning the dimension of the state space or separability of effects of state and input of the subsystems. If certain other relations between the norm of interest on the state space and the positive definite functions are established, Lyapunov or in some cases asymptotic stability in the large can be established. The sufficiency part of the Kalman-Yacubovich lemma as applied to the same problem, is extended to include infinite dimensional systems. That is, it is shown that if the Popov criterion is satisfied, then a Lyapunov function of the Lur'e type exists, even in the infinite dimensional case."
"It is shown that when the time-optimal inputs of a linear time-varying system satisfy a constraint of the Lptype, the single output cannot overshoot the final desired value."
"It is pointed out that the algorithmic method recently suggested by Hewit and Storey for the construction of Lyapunov functions yields a result which is expressible in closed form."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A control system is described which employs an adaptive modeler to estimate the state, dynamics, and future trajectory of an unknown plant. Control is automatically synthesized to minimize a performance index involving the estimated future. The effects of perfect and imperfect modeling and of optimal and sub-optimal instrumentation are considered. Experimental results are presented."
"A computational technique is presented here for identifying the impulse response of a linear system from normal operating noisy data. No assumption, however, is made regarding the nature of the noise. The technique derives its idea from the delay line synthesizer (DLS) though in this case the DLS coefficients which discretely represent the weighting function are computed automatically employing the steepest descent method. The method has been tried out on a first-order as well as a second-order system simulated on a digital computer; the estimated impulse response is found to be very close to the actual one."
"The problem of the implementation of optimal control for systems affected by parametric variations is discussed. Some conditions are given which enable the comparison between open-loop and closed-loop implementation without requiring any knowledge of the probability density function of the values of the parameters. The consideration of the simplest linear system allows some interesting conclusions."
"This paper considers the stability problem of the model reference adaptive control systems by means of the properties of hyperstable systems. A theorem concerning the hyperstability of model reference adaptive control systems is presented. This theorem directly gives a structure of the adaption mechanism. The results presented here include all the results obtained by Butchart, Shackcloth, Parks, Winsor, Roy, and Dressler. The hyperstability approach presented in this paper also allows for other solutions to the adaption mechanism and represents a general method for studying this type of adaptive systems. The results are directly applicable to the design of model reference adaptive control systems and they were verified for some particular cases by analogical simulation."
"In this correspondence an alternative form of the frequency domain stability criterion of nonlinear control systems is shown. A graphical method of performing this criterion using the gain-phase plane is also discussed."
"A minimax estimator for the state of a discrete time-varying linear plant with an a priori unknown control sequence is developed. No statistics for the sequence of control vectors are assumed to exist. It is assumed, however, that the a priori unknown control sequence can be measured in additive Gaussian noise with zero mean and known variance."
"Based on the analogy between the equation of motion of a step motor and that of a simple pendulum with viscous damping, the paper develops the necessary criteria for synchronization when the motor is subjected to a series of steps. The problem is first analyzed ignoring the discrete nature of the input leading to approximate determination of the critical stepping rates. This is followed by a more accurate analysis. The results of these analyses are presented in nondimensional form and can be used for the design of the motor."
"The phenomenon of mode interaction between rigid-body and elastic motion of a large launch vehicle is described and illustrated. For severe interaction, control system synthesis by the usual approach of assuming pitch attitude and rate feedback and use of conventional servo analysis techniques is not suitable. By use of a new method based on the state variable formulations of modern control theory, a simple practical control system is synthesized without the trial and error associated with servo analysis methods. Specified closed-loop frequencies and damping ratios, including active control of structural mode dynamics, are achieved using only the booster thrust vector control. No frequency tracking filters or feedback signal discrimination is needed. The only feedback signals necessary are those provided by angular displacement and acceleration sensors. Five simple first-order passive filters are the only compensation network dynamic elements required."
"The problem of controlling a linear system to minimize a quadratic cost criterion is investigated when the system output is a delayed linear combination of system states corrupted by additive observation noise. It is shown that the optimal control is generated by the cascade combination of a Kalman filter and a least mean-squared predictor. Expressions are derived for the minimum cost and for the state variances."
"An apparently new stochastic control algorithm, calledM-measurement-optimal feedback control, is described for discrete-time systems. This scheme incorporatesMfuture measurements into the control computations: whenMis zero,it reduces to the well-known open-loop-optimal feedback control; whenMis the actual number of measurements remaining in the problem, it becomes the truly optimal stochastic control. This new algorithm may also be used to simplify computations when the plant is nonlinear, when the controls are constrained, or when the cost is nonquadratic. Simulation results are presented which show the superiority of the new algorithm over the open-loop-optimal feedback control."
"This paper investigates the characteristics of the dynamics of a parameter-perturbation process in a continuous linear system. These characteristics are studied in the performance index-parameter space for a positive definite performance index function. In particular, the relationship between the static sensitivity function and the process quasilinear dynamics is established, and the minimum and nonminimum phase phenomena of the dynamics are examined. It is shown that the process quasilinear dynamics, from parameter variations to the dynamic response in the error-criterion function, are the nonminimum phase type if the quiescent value of the parameter lies on the negative slope side of the static error-transfer characteristics and derivative type at the optimum value of the parameter. Theoretical and analog simulation results are presented for a particular system."
"A method is presented for the numerical solution of control optimization problems by a systematic search in initial costate space. A three-stage search is conducted on the surface of a hypersphere. The first stage is a steepest descent search for an initial costate for which the terminal constraints are satisfied, and the second stage is a projected gradient search within the constraint set for the minimum of the performance function. For the third stage two different algorithms are developed which have good final convergence. A Newton-Raphson method is applied to a projected transversality error, and a projected gradient method is developed which allows standard gradient acceleration and nonlinear programming methods to be employed."
"This paper considers computational problems arising in the solution of the linear optimal regulator problem. The proposed solution for the constant feedback gain matrix is an adaption of the eigenvector solution proposed by many authors. Techniques are given which are numerically stable and do not require complex arithmetic. These techniques offer considerable savings in computation time and eliminate many of the problems that plague more conventional methods."
"A method is proposed in this paper for the synthesis of an adaptive controller for a class of model reference systems in which the plant is not known exactly, but which is of the following type: single variable, time varying, either linear or nonlinear, ofnth order, and capable ofmth order input differentiation. The model is linear, stable, and ofn'th order, where(n - m) \\leq n' \\leq n. The only knowledge of the plant that is required in this synthesis procedure is the form of the plant equation and the bounds ofb_{m}(t), the coefficient of themth order plant input derivative. The synthesis procedure makes use of an unique function, called the characteristic variable, and Lyapunov type synthesis. The introduction of the characteristic variable reduces the synthesis problem to one that involves a known, linear time-invariant lower order plant. The control signal is generated by measuring the plant and model outputs, and their first(n - m)derivative signals. This ensures that the norm of the(n - m)-dimensional error vector is ultimately bounded by ε, an arbitrarily small positive number provided\\xi(t), the characteristic variable, is bounded. Two nontrivial simulation examples are included."
"A modified gradient procedure is presented for adjusting parameters in a linear control system in the absence of complete knowledge of the plant dynamic characteristics. The algorithm operates to make discrete-time changes in the adjustable parameters during the normal course of system operation and incorporates the best available information on the unknown quantities. Sufficient conditions for the error corrective properties of the algorithm are derived, and the results of a simulation study are discussed."
"A class of differential pursuit-evasion games is examined in which the dynamics are linear and perturbed by additive white Gaussian noise, the performance index is quadratic, and both players receive measurements perturbed independently by additive white Gaussian noise. Linear minimax solutions are characterized in terms of a set of implicit integro-differential equations. A game of this type also possesses a \"certainty-coincidence\" property, meaning that its minimax behavior coincides with that of the corresponding deterministic game in the event that all noise values are zero. This property is used to decompose the minimax strategies into sums of a certainty-equivalent term and error terms."
"A procedure for the design of optimal feedback controls for linear time-invariant systems relative to time-multiplied quadratic performance indices is presented. An iterative scheme for the computation of the optimal control law is proposed. An example is given to demonstrate the control over transient behavior given by the design based on time-multiplied performance indices."
"A simple easily implemented method is developed for obtaining a suboptimal control law for the optimization problem associated with minimizing a quadratic cost functional for nonlinear systems. The suboptimal control law is derived using a Taylor's series representation for the feedback gain matrix after modeling the nonlinear system by a linear system at each instant of time. The resultant control law is of feedback form and is nonlinear in state. The suboptimal control is obtained without using iterative techniques or any true optimal solutions. A second-order numerical example illustrates the effectiveness of the method and gives a comparison to the results of previous methods."
"The optimization of discrete systems constrained in an unusual way is discussed. Moreover, it is supposed that for such systems, here called \"nonsemper,\" the selection of the control policy consists in the choice of the value of the control variables as well as in the allocation over time of the control action itself. A simple functional equation suitable for carrying on the solution of the problem is derived via dynamic programming."
"Previous work on the space-sampled feedback control of continuum instabilities in flowing systems is extended. When the continuum over which control is desired is many wavelengths long, it is often convenient to construct the control system of many sampling stations, each approximately one wavelength in size. The stability of such a system is discussed, and a new type of instability is found which does not appear when the system is small in terms of a wavelength."
"The mathematical description of random samplers is generalized to cover randomly gated stationary random signals. It is shown that the spectral density of randomly gated signals is the sum of a complex convolution integral and its paraconjugate. When a random gating signal is generated by a parent gating signal, relationships between the characteristic functions associated with a random gate and those associated with a parent gate are given. The application of Wiener-Hopf theory to the design of optimum filters for the reconstruction of randomly gated signals is presented."
"General solutions to the optimal stochastic control problem, or the combined estimation and control problem, are extremely difficult to compute since dynamic programming is required. However, if the system is linear, if the measurements are linear, and if the cost is quadratic, then the optimal stochastic controller is separated into 1) a filter to generate the conditional mean of the state, and 2) the optimum (linear) controller that results when all uncertainties are neglected. By altering the system configuration a new separation theorem is derived for arbitrary nonlinear measurements, discrete-time linear systems, and a quadratic cost. If a feedback loop is placed around the nonlinear measurement device (e.g., an analog-to-digital converter), then the stochastic control can be found without dynamic programming and is computed by cascading a nonlinear filter and the optimum (linear) controller. The primary advantage is the significant saving in computation. The performance of this new system configuration relative to the system without feedback depends on the nonlinearity, and it is not necessarily superior. A numerical example is presented."
"The application of dynamic programming to pulse-frequency modulated (PFM) control systems is discussed. In the PFM systems considered the control function consists of a series of standard pulses. Because, in general, the peformance index is not Markovian, which is a requirement for the application of dynamic programming, a restriction is imposed upon the control function. This restriction, which specifies the allowable instants of time where pulses may occur, may cause the resulting control function to yield a less desirable performance index than the one obtained with a control function derived by means which do not impose this restriction, i.e., modified maximum principle [8], [9]. An example belonging to a class of systems in which the equations are separable and linear with respect to the state variables, with no final value constraints is presented. It is shown that for this class of systems the optimum control function is independent of the initial values of the state variables. Consequently, the search for the optimum control function is simplified."
"This paper considers a servosystem containing a relay with dead zone and hysteresis. A frequency-domain stability criterion is given using the Popov-type techniques, and it is shown that if the linear subsystem in the feedback loop contains a free integrator and its frequency response satisfies this criterion, then the error settles within the dead zone after a finite time."
"It is argued that the most appropriate sensitivity measure in time-optimal control systems is a norm of the terminal error. How do nominally equivalent open-loop and closed-loop time-optimal systems compare with respect to this sensitivity measure? It is shown via an example that the answer depends on the location of the initial point and even on the direction of parameter variations."
"In many optimal control problems the performance criterion depends in part on the behavior of a system that is not subject to control. Since the control affects only a subset of the system state variables, such systems are said to be partially controlled. This paper considers continuous-time systems with linear system equations and quadratic performance criterion. The major result of this correspondence is that the computation of the optimal control for partially controlled systems can be split into the following parts: first, the optimal control for the controlled system is computed using a Riccati equation; next, a linear equation is solved to obtain a term for the control that accounts for the behavior of the uncontrolled system. Hence, the problem of computing the optimal control for an (n_{1} + n_{2})-dimensional system, where n1is the dimension of the controlled system and n2is the dimension of the uncontrolled system, is essentially reduced to computing the optimal control for the n1-dimensional controlled system. This results in a significant reduction in the computational requirements."
"An analog computer is used to apply a Monte Carlo method of solution to the parabolic partial differential equations that arise in stochastic time-optimal control theory. Using this method, an iterative technique called approximation-in-policy-space is applied to find the optimum switching curve. An example of a second-order inertial plant is considered, and the results are found to agree with those found by a perturbation given by Dorato et al. [1]."
"The problem of solving a non-linear vector equation of the formx = f(\\theta)for a\\thetawhich corresponds to a givenxis attacked by Newton-Raphson. To keep the lengthy evaluations of partial derivatives at a minimum, each step is optimized to get the search as close to the solution as possible. Substantial savings in computation time are realized and solutions can be obtained efficiently even when the initial guess is not close to the ultimate answer."
"Nine different techniques of unconstrained minimization are applied to the same problem and their relative efficiency is compared. The techniques used are of gradient, variable metric type, used in conjunction with the sequential unconstrained minimization techniques (SUMT) program. The problem tested has nonlinear inequality constraints up to the ninth order."
"The jump phenomena of the output signal of control systems containing nonlinear elements with memory excited by input signals are presented. The input signal is assumed to be a stationary random process with a normal distribution. By applying the statistical linearization technique to the control system described by the nonlinear differential equation of the third order, the statistical characteristics of the output signal are computed numerically and the jump phenomena are discussed."
"Sufficient conditions for finding stability regions are derived. The stability approach is based on the comparison theorems using Bernoulli's scalar comparison equation."
"The transient descriptors of a class of linear third-order systems are presented in graphical form. An example is given with a discussion on the analysis of lag compensation and second-order approximations."
"A technique for application of the popular fast Fourier transform (FFT) to the system identification problem is outlined. Smoothing is obtained inherently in the transform and additionally by redundancy in the data. An iterative technique is discussed for the case of nonzero initial conditions and to avoid problems due to the circular nature of convolutions computed by the discrete Fourier transform (DFT)."
"A simpler criterion for establishing the mean-square stability of a class ofnth order linear systems with randomly, time varying parameters is presented. In order to find the necessary and sufficient condition for the boundness of second-order moments, use is made of a theory of Lyapunov's second method for stochastic systems."
"The problem of estimating state variables and unknown parameters of a nonlinear system from noisy measurements is presented. The estimate to maximize the a posteriori probability density function of state variables and unknown parameters conditioned upon noisy measurements is approximately computed by using the recursive and the corrective formulas. The result for a simple system is presented in which the estimates for the linearized recursive method and the proposed one are compared."
"Some clarification concerning the convergence of one type of stochastic approximation identification algorithms is presented. A quick check for unbiasedness of such algorithms is given."
"Showing that a certain maximum likelihood estimate of the initial state of a nonlinear system is an Ito process asymptotically is considered. Also using the Ito calculus, a scalar recursive estimator equation is derived."
"A closed form solution of the linear variance equation, which is amenable to machine computation, is presented. It allows one to compute the covariance matrix associated with the linear system starting at any initial condition without using recursive techniques. Thus a large amount of computing time can be saved if one is interested in the covariance matrix at only a few times. Also, one can obtain the steady-state result directly. The primary restriction is that the system of interest must have a system matrix which is diagonalizable."
"Different methods are put forth for the analysis of stability and performance of nonlinear sampled-data systems, and many methods of stabilization are suggested. The injection of high-frequency oscillations at the input to the non-linear element is suggested as a possible method of stabilizing nonlinear sampled-data systems. Analytical and experimental investigations are carried out, and the advantages of signal stabilization over other methods are established."
"The construction of Lyapunov functions for discrete systems which may be arranged in the form of a linear, time-varying subsystem with feedback memoryless nonlinearities is considered. The results constitute a generalization of Popov's stability theory."
"The stability of nonlinear control systems with stochastic coefficients is studied by applying the Lyapunov theory. A Lyapunov functionV(x)is first assumed, similar to the deterministic case. Consider next the natural stochastic analog of\\dot{V}(x)as ÃV(x), where Ã is equal to the differential generator. The procedure of establishing stability conditions is illustrated by two second-order examples and four third-order examples."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Expressions are derived for the maximum phase margin obtainable from an inertially damped servomechanism, and the viscous friction coefficient which realizes this condition."
"A method for generating Lyapunov functionals for time-delay systems by means of path integrals in state space is given. The method is derived by making use of a new description of such systems in terms of convolution equations involving distributions with compact support. The important properties of these equations are discussed and it is shown that a suitable state space can be defined. Path integrals in this state space are defined and conditions for path independence are derived. With the aid of some results dealing with the spectral factorization of entire functions of exponential order, it is shown that these path integrals can be used to define Lyapunov functionals for time-delay systems. The method given represents an extension to infinite-dimensional systems of a technique developed by Brockett for systems described by ordinary differential equations. While the present approach differs fundamentally from that used for finite-dimensional systems, the results given here are similar to, and in the special case of finite-dimensional systems reduce to, the results given by Brockett. Hence the method given can be successfully applied even without a deep understanding of either distributions or distributional convolution equations. This is illustrated by a number of examples which show the application of the results to stability analysis as well as to a class of quadratic minimiization problems."
"Policies are developed for two pursuit-evasion differential games. In the first, the initial state is such that capture of the evader can be guaranteed. In the second, capture is not guaranteed, but the evader desires to approach a target as closely as possible. In both games, consideration is given to pursuer policies appropriate when the evader acts nonoptimally. A method is presented for designing simple state feedback controllers to realize the chosen policy."
"Attention is given to stochastic differential games in which the two controllers have available only noise-corrupted output measurements. Consideration is restricted to the case in which the system is linear, the cost functional quadratic, and the noises corrupting the output measurements are independent, white, and Gaussian. A solution to this problem is presented under the constraint that each controller is limited to a linear dynamic system of fixed dimension for the generation of his estimate of the system state. The optimal controls are shown to satisfy a separation theorem, the optimal estimators are shown to be closely related to Kalman filters, and the various terms in the optimal cost are shown to be readily assignable to the appropriate contributing sources."
"When a dynamic system is perturbed by random disturbances, the system responses deviate from their nominal values, in general. Because of physical reasons, the deviations are required to satisfy certain inequality constraints. When a closed-loop controller is designed to minimize the deviations, the control efforts are also subject to some inequality constraints. In this paper, a suboptimal closed-loop controller is developed for a linear time-varying process subject to additive random disturbances and additive measurement noises. The controller minimizes the probability that the system responses and the control inputs violate given inequality constraints. The method is based on the quadratic equivalence. The problem is formulated in the normed function space so that Dem'yanov and Rubinov's algorithm can be applied. The convergence conditions are also given. As an illustration, the method is used to design a closed-loop controller for a Saturn-class missile modeled by a tenth-order linear time-varying system."
"A slack variable is used to transform an optimal control problem with a scalar control and a scalar inequality constraint on the state variables into an unconstrained problem of higher dimension. It is shown that, for apth order constraint, thepth time derivative of the slack variable becomes the new control variable. The usual Pontryagin principle or Lagrange multiplier rule gives necessary conditions of optimality. There are no discontinuities in the adjoint variables. A feature of the transformed problem is that any nominal control function produces a feasible trajectory. The optimal trajectory of the transformed problem exhibits singular arcs which correspond, in the original constrained problem, to arcs which lie along the constraint boundary."
"This paper is concerned with the behavior, near the terminal time, of a fixed time fixed endpoint linear optimal control problem. The optimal control is represented in feedback form by a time-varying gain matrix operating on the present state of the system. The gain matrix is shown to have a pole at the final time. Furthermore, the limiting behavior of the gain matrix is shown to be independent of most of the parameters of the system and to depend solely on the orders of the matrices involved. Thus, the terminal behavior for this entire class of systems is identical to the behavior of a single limiting system."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers the Lpstability of systems with a convolution operator in the forward loop and a time-varying gain in the feedback loop. A frequency-domain condition involving the frequency response of the forward loop and the Fourier coefficients of the time-varying gain of the feedback loop is presented. The paper also contains a somewhat more involved time-domain condition in terms of the open-loop weighting pattern."
"In an earlier correspondence a \"proof\" of convergence for the conjugate gradient method was given. This correspondence points out an error and states a slightly weaker version of the theorem which is correctly proven."
"The feedback realization of the continuous optimal filter is applied to familar problems of the design of servomechanisms with stochastic inputs and disturbances. This approach leads immediately to optimal feedback configurations and, interestingly, to integral plus derivative control for the wind torque disturbed antenna servo problem. As in optimal filter theory, time-varying gains are generated for the finite time or \"lock on\" problem. Since digital computer programs are already available for computing these gains the design of complex intercoupled servos is feasible. The application to \"minimum bandwidth\" servo design is indicated."
"The thermally most efficient operation of a thermal regenerator, a particular type of heat exchanger, is analyzed through the minimum principle for distributed parameter systems and Laplace transform techniques. It is found that for optimal operation the gas inlet temperature during the heating phase should equal its maximal allowable value, and that the optimal gas flow rate during the heating phase is constant."
"Two nonlinear models (one dynamic and one instantaneous) are derived for gimbaled star trackers utilized as attitude sensors. Both models are linearized and are shown to produce the same linear model; in fact, it is the model used by Doolin and Showman in the design and analysis of their \"paired-tracker\" system. A comparison of the linear and nonlinear tracker-error processor models for some values of the attitude angles within the range of interest indicates that the linear model produces substantial errors, and its utility for stability analysis is questionable. Using the NASA Orbiting Astronomical Observatory coarse pointing mode attitude control system as an example, it is shown that the instantaneous nonlinear tracker model has distinct advantages over the dynamic model. In particular, the system's state equation is of fixed dimension regardless of the number of star trackers used; the stability of the linear part can be determined by analyzing each of the three attitude channels separately; the system is readily shown to be locally asymptotically stable; and, in principle, its domain of asymptotic stability can be estimated by a straightforward procedure."
"A state variable formulation of the remote manipulation problem is presented, applicable to human-supervised or autonomous computer-manipulators. A discrete state vector, containing position variables for the manipulator and relevant objects, spans a quantized state space comprising many static configurations of objects and hand. A manipulation task is a desired new state. State transitions are assigned costs and are accomplished by commands: hand motions plus grasp, release, push, twist, etc. In control theory terms the problem is to find the cheapest control history (if any) from present to desired state. A method similar to dynamic programming is used to determine the optimal history. The system is capable of obstacle avoidance, grasp rendezvous, incorporation of new sensor data, remembering results of previous tasks, and so on."
"This paper takes the reader through the steps of a control system design using both optimal control theory and sensitivity analysis. The problem is to control color on a paper machine. The physical aspects of color are briefly described and a model for the paper machine is given. The model responses are compared with responses obtained experimentally on a small-scale machine. The retention turns out to be an unknown and variable parameter. A sampled-data design is carried out for the nominal case where the retention is 100 percent using the linear-regulator theory. A parameter\\rhoweighing the control effort in the quadratic cost function is then used as a design parameter."
"In a recent paper [1] a back-to-back configuration of two strapdown single axis electrically rebalanced rate integrating gyros was introduced. It was shown that, theoretically, some of the errors due to cross-coupling between the components of the vehicular angular rates and accelerations drop out. In this paper the same idea is applied to a second class of gyros used in strapdown systems, namely: the single axis platform (SAP) gyro. The error expression for the SAP is derived and the cancellation of the error due to output axis angular rate is shown when the back-to-back configuration is used."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are given here for the asymptotic stability of the mean and second moment of a linear autonomous system with state-dependent disturbances. A sufficient condition is presented for the null solution of this system to be asmptotically stable with probability one. Also, an algorithm is presented for solving the linear matrix equation for stability."
"Three abstract optimization problems are presented along with doubly iterative algorithms for their numerical solution. These algorithms are generalizations of particular algorithms described by Barr and Gilbert [19], [21] and Fujisawa and Yasuda [22]. The supporting theory is fully developed along with proofs of convergence. Practical aspects of computations are considered and procedures which insure rapid convergence are discussed. Two applications to discrete-time optimal control problems are described."
"In the automobile industry today, various options are allowed on a single type of vehicle to meet the variety of customer tastes, and vehicles of different work specifications are carried along the same conveyer line accordingly. Since different semifinished articles on the conveyer require different work times in work zones, the work load in each work zone varies largely with the conveyer-in sequence. If the conveyer-in sequence is not proper, there is an increased risk of conveyer shutdown or an unnecessary reduction of conveyer speed and production. In this paper, the work condition of a conveyer line havingNwork zones is mathematically expressed, and the optimization of the conveyer-in sequence is shown as maximizing the minimum work allowance for all work zones and all semifinished articles. The problem is complicated, however, because the work allowance at the point of time when a semifinished article is worked on is a function of the work time and work sequence of semifinished articles in the previous work zones. Moreover, the real work is liable to be disturbed unexpectedly and requires the work schedule to be done dynamically and updated constantly so as to reflect current circumstances. A conveyer-in sequence control system which is optimum in this sense is presented together with its proofs."
"A method is presented whereby an optimal control may be obtained for a linear time-varying system with time delay. The performance criterion is quadratic with a fixed, finite upper limit, and results in a set of differential equations with boundary conditions whose solution yields an optimal feedback control. A numerical technique is developed for the solution of the differential equations, and two examples are worked."
"A scalar measure of system sensitivity to plant parameter variations is employed in the design of linear lumped stationary multivariable feedback control systems. The plant parameters are treated as random variables, and design formulas are derived which lead to systems with the smallest expected value for the chosen scalar sensitivity measure. The design formulas give physically realizable feedback and tandem compensation network transfer function matrices provided the overall system transfer function matrix is properly specified. The solution of the minimum sensitivity design problem is obtained by first solving the multivariable semi-free-configuration Wiener problem."
"Optimal stochastic control is investigated for linear systems in which the intensity of the driving noise is proportional to control input. Conditions are given under which an optimal control always exists. It is shown that the optimal control is linear in the system state. A convergent algorithm is developed for computing the optimal feedback gains."
"A multilinear system withrinput lines may be realized as anr-layer network, with thejth layer containing one linear system for eachj-element subset of{1,...,r}with any machine receiving inputs from those machines, and those system inputs corresponding to subsets of its own subset."
"An algorithm is presented for inverting transformations associated with linear dynamic systems. The induced inverse system, when it exists, operates on outputs and generates the corresponding inputs of the system to which it is inverse. The applications for inverse systems are found in such diverse areas as control, coding, filtering, and sensitivity analysis."
"A synthesis procedure is developed for a dominant third-order system (as opposed to the usual dominant second-order system) where the size of the complex closed-loop pole region is not specifically restricted but is contained within a circular boundary. The plant considered is of third order, with a real pole at the origin and a pair of complex poles with negative real parts. The added real pole affords an additional degree of freedom with which to meet the system-time domain specifications. The compensation prescribed is a biquadratic network with complex zeros, and compensation poles are constrained to exhibit only second-order effects. The procedure is based on the association of the desired closed-loop pole parameter values with open-loop parameter values in the (\\Omega^{2},\\Sigma) plane, which is in actuality the natural-frequency-squared damping-constant plane. A constant gain factor is assumed, but this constraint may be removed if a tandem gain control system is employed. This assures that the gain variations are much slower than the system response. Relations between the desired nominal closed-loop poles and the plant region and compensation locations are derived for a prescribed circular closed-loop pole region. The nominal plant pole location is a design specification, while the allowable plant region depends on the closed-loop pole location and region, i.e., a change in size of one region is reflected as a proportional change in size of the plant closed-loop pole region. The remote compensation pole location is primarily determined by minimizing transient distortion while ensuring a specified degree of stability."
"An iterative procedure for time-optimal control of linear plants with constrained control amplitudes is presented. It is assumed that thenth-order state-equation coefficient matrix has real eigenvalues, so that the time-optimal control is of the known bang-bang form withnswitchings. The first step in the procedure is to arbitrarily choosenswitching times (including the final time), and to calculate a precise constant control function which although not necessarily satisfying the amplitude constraints does bring the plant to the desired terminal state. In the following steps the switching times are systematically adjusted until the control function closely approximates the bang-bang form. The procedure is simple to implement, and experiments have shown fast convergence."
"This paper presents an iterative algorithm to approximate inequality constrained optimal control problems. The method uses Pontryagin's necessary conditions of optimality with a penalty method. The initial values of the adjoint vector\\Psi(t), and the penalty coefficients are evaluated in such a way that the final conditions are satisfied and the extremal distances between the obtained trajectory and the constraints are imposed. The computing time is remarkably small. This method can treat linear problems with fixed or variable final time with mixed or simple constraints. A test problem is solved."
"An algorithm for system parameter identification will be presented in this paper. The method is applicable to linear and nonlinear systems with known structures. It is applied in this paper to systems in which both system and measurement noises can be neglected. The algorithm requires less time per iteration and less computer storage than the quasilinearization method. A shaft position control system with multiple nonlinearities will be used to illustrate the method."
"Necessary conditions are developed for the fuel-optimal attitude control of a spin-stabilized axisymmetric spacecraft for which control torques are generated by means of a gimballed reaction-jet system. Solutions are developed, based on Lawden's [1] impulsive approximation, for the free-time fuel-optimality criterion. A control logic is proposed for realizing the derived impulsive solutions by means of an orthogonal reaction-jet system. The proposed system requires angular measurements but does not require angular-rate measurements. Pulsewidth modulation is used to generate approximate impulses of varying magnitudes."
"The large-angle generalization of a suboptimal control scheme for the attitude control of a rigid space vehicle spinning about an axis of symmetry is the objective of this paper. Body-fixed reaction jets with fixed impulse are used for control. The scheme is also applicable to dual-spin vehicles. Comparison with the fuel-optimal two-impulse control scheme, requiring jets with variable impulse, shows that this scheme, except for small angles, requires in general more fuel than the suboptimal scheme described. A detailed mechanization of the control law is presented."
"A particular variant of the minimum fuel problem is considered which does not necessarily lead to an on-off optimal controller. For a given problem the controllers may remain off, act in the on-off mode, or exhibit smooth variations from full on to full off."
"This short paper presents equations and mathematical models of a variable-reluctance stepping motor. These models can be used for the analysis and design of motor performances involving single or multiple stepping. The principle of operation of the stepping motor is also discussed."
"Time-optimal control for multiple stepping of a variable-reluctance type stepping motor is discussed. A controller with phase-position feedback is designed and built for the minimum-time control of the motor. Experimental results showed that the controlled motor is capable of traveling a prescribed number of steps in near minimum time by the injection of one or two single pulses and the proper adjustment of the lead angle of the feedback sensors. High-speed responses such as 300 steps in 100 ms from start to stop have been achieved experimentally."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Two methods of evaluating a Volterra series have been used in the literature. Using contraction mapping theorems, these two methods are shown to give identical series. An algorithm is developed for evaluating the series."
"Certain aspects of a recent correspondence by Jury and Kan are discussed. It is pointed out that deterministic sampling schemes may be regarded as special cases of a random sampling scheme."
"The results of the example problem of the above correspondence are examined. The technique of post optimal sensitivity analysis is used to show that an implied conclusion of the item is incorrect. The numerical results of a counterexample are given."
"The problem of determining the functional model of a time-invariant nonlinear analytic system is considered. A new approach to the identification, based on a new functional series expansion relating the input and the output function of an analytic system, is presented. The results obtained are compared with other methods."
"Recently Gilbert [6] obtained general solution results on the decoupling of multivariable systems by state feedback. This paper presents a general-purpose computer program which carries out all of the calculations necessary for reducing these results to a useful synthesis procedure. The program is described in general terms and several examples of its application are given."
"A direct method for finding the limit cycle amplitude of a second-order servomechanism with backlash by construction of a critical takeup line on the phase plane is described. Intersections of this line with the backlash takeup line indicate the existence of limit cycles. The method requires a minimum of effort, and the results are accurate to within the usual limitations of graphical analysis."
"The object of this correspondence is to prove a theorem which assures the continuity and differentiability properties of an optimal control of a system with respect to a small parameter whose presence changes the order of the system. This theorem is an extension of a similar theorem proved in an earlier paper."
"A simple and direct proof of the minimum variance property of the linear weighted least-squares estimator is presented."
"The time-optimal control of second-order systems with complex poles is well reported in technical literature. The switching boundary is complex and too difficult to implement. In this correspondence, new suboptimal systems are proposed and compared to the one available in [1], [2]. The suboptimal systems now proposed yield better response times, and the nonlinearities required to generate the switching boundaries are much simpler."
"A hybrid scheme for estimation of cross-power spectral density is presented, where filtering is analog and averaging is digital. Expressions of the expected value, and of the dispersion of the estimate so achieved, are obtained. Indications for estimate design are then given."
"A class of nonstationary processes which changes dynamic characteristics in a discrete Markovian way and a method to identify a parameter and to estimate a state variable is proposed. This method is based on the mean-square error criterion using the conditional probability approach under the assumption that the conditional probability distributions of both the parameter and the state variable are Gaussian."
"Techniques are given for realizing optimal learning systems for filtering a sampled stochastic process in the presence of an unknown constant or time-varying parameter. It is shown how the nonlinear Bayes optimal (quadratic sense) adaptive filters can be directly realized for continuous parameter spaces by real-time analog systems. Examples are given for both constant and time-varying unknown parameters."
"The estimation of completely unknown signals is studied. Signals which have no probabilistic structure propagate through a linear system. The output of the linear system is observed in the presence of white noise. A sampled-data linear filter is found which estimates the signals at discrete points in time. The estimate is optimum in the sense that it is unbiased and the variance of the estimate is minimized (Fisher estimate)."
"A general method for evaluation of transition matrices is presented. The technique involves determination of the inverse of the modified Vandermonde matrix followed by its post multiplication with the initial vector."
"The method of explicit inversion of the Laplace transform equation previously developed is extended by the use of a Jacobi-Gauss quadrature formula The step response of a second-order system is approximated, and time-domain data are obtained by using the inverse matrix."
"Simple analytical relations are given for the inverse of the Vandermonde matrix as well as for the inverse of its confluent form. These relations, when used according to a suggested procedures allow one to compute the desired inverse matrices efficiently and accurately."
"It is shown that in optimal filter theory multidimensional observations can be incorporated one at a time, thus avoiding matrix inversions. In applications of optimal filter theory this is sometimes convenient from a programming viewpoint."
"Controllability is defined with respect to sensitivity of performance index for variations in control."
"In this paper necessary and sufficient conditions are given for the existence of a transformation that will transform a time-variable linear system into a multiple-input canonical form. A procedure for generating such a transformation is also described."
"A limiting case of great importance in engineering is that of slowly varying parameters. For systems described by\\dot{x} = A(t)x, one would intuitively expect that if, for eacht, the frozen system is stable, then the time-varying system should also be stable. ProvidedA(t)is small enough, Rosenbrock has shown that this is the case [1]. Rosenbrock used a continuity argument [1, p. 75]. In this correspondence explicit bounds and slightly sharper results are obtained. Finally, it is pointed out that these results are useful in the study of the exact behavior of non-linear lumped systems with slowly varying operating points."
"Coordination is defined as the decision problem of a control unit embedded in a hierarchical multilevel system. The strategy for coordination is derived by using two principles termed the interaction balance and the interaction prediction principle, respectively. A family of interacting subsystems is then considered as coordinable via a coordination principle and relative to an objective valid for the overall system if the lower level control problems can be influenced so that the overall task is achieved. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the coordinability of a class of dynamic systems are derived using a variational approach. The results are applied to systems described by differential equations."
"This paper presents necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of an optimal control for a class of nonlinear systems described by an infinite series of Volterra type. Variational methods are applied to minimize quadratic cost functionals leading to a class of nonlinear integral equations. Sufficient conditions for the existence and uniqueness of a solution of this integral equation are presented using abstract analysis. To the best knowledge of the author these results are new. The technique presented here applies to linear and nonlinear stationary and time-varying systems described by input-output functional relations through finite or infinite Volterra series. An example of nonlinear systems described by an infinite series of Volterra type is presented for illustration."
"With the growing popularity of integrated circuits the microstrip transmission line has received wide attention from the microwave community. A common feature that most known analytic solutions share is an assumption that the fundamental mode of propagation resembles a TEM wave closely enough to permit various electrostatic approximations such as conformal mapping, relaxation method, and variational principle. Such solutions although quite useful at low frequencies neglect the fact that the actual propagating modes cannot be TEM. The dispersion of non-TEM waves causes, at microwave frequencies, considerable deviations in effective dielectric constant and velocity of propagation from those values obtained by the electrostatic approximation. In this paper it is shown that the modes that exist on a microstrip transmission line must be hybrid in order that all boundary and continuity conditions be satisfied. In this rigorous analysis the hybrid modes are decomposed into sums of TE and TM (or LSE and LSM) space harmonics, each satisfying the wave equation and the external boundary conditions and their total satisfying the continuity conditions and boundary conditions on the strip. The final outcome of the analysis is a pair of coupled integral equations that are solved numerically. The results indicate that the fundamental hybrid mode is propagating at all frequencies and approaches the known static solutions at low frequencies. However, the correct solution deviates from the static approximation at microwave frequencies. Of particular interest is the fact that as the dielectric constant of the substrate increases the frequency range at which the TEM approximation is valid decreases. The results obtained show close agreement with available experimental data."
"Hybrids are frequently used as components in microwave systems or sub-systems such as balanced mixers, balanced amplifiers, phase shifters, attenuators, modulators, discriminators, measurement bridges, etc. An ideal hybrid is a four-port junction with properties such that a wave incident in port one couples equal power into ports two and four but none into port three. Hybrids are classified according to the phase shift between the two outputs. There are two basic types: 180/spl deg/ hybrids and 90/spl deg/ (quadrature) hybrids. The latter are also called 3-dB directional couplers."
"To be useful in the design of microwave integrated circuits, conventional components often need to be severely modified or to be employed in other than the usual configurations. The inverted-common-collector (ICC) transistor is an example of a useful active microwave circuit element, suitable for integrated-circuit applications, but virtually unused at lower frequencies. Initial results on active filters using ICC transistors were reported at the 1968 G-MTT symposium. More recently, the ICC configuration has been successfully used to realize stable multiplexers, impedance-matching elements, oscillators, and amplifiers at UHF and microwave frequencies. The purpose of this paper is to present several new applications for ICC transistor circuits."
"The microstrip mixer shown in Fig. (1) is a broadband design based on an impedance match concept at the local oscillator drive level. It covers the frequency band 3.5-10.5 GHz. A simple balanced mixer design consists of three basic components - a 3 dB coupler, band rejection filter and a matched diode."
"This paper presents a description of an L-band dual-channel seven-bit phase shifter which has been developed for a phased-array application. Each channel provides seven-bit phase shifting capability over a 360/spl deg/ range in 2.8/spl deg/ increments. The outputs from the two channels are summed in a combiner which has also been integrated into the overall assembly. The performance requirements for the assembly are as follows: Bandwidth 15%, RMS deviation from nominal phase /spl les/ 3.5/spl deg/, RMS deviation from mean loss /spl les/ 0.35 dB, Return loss at each port /spl ges/ 17 dB. Since this unit would be utilized in large numbers in its intended application and since there are a large number of phase states, it was advantageous to define the unit-to-unit similarity in terms of RMS deviations rather than peak-to-peak limits."
"Early microwave transistor amplifiers were single-transistor-cascaded types. They needed numerous tuning adjustments in order to obtain wide-band flat gain characteristics. To overcome the difficulty, a balanced transistor amplifler was developed. However, it requires a second transistor at every stage and its circuit is complicated. This fact gives rise to high cost. In this paper the design principle and experimental results of a multistage transistor amplifier of simple construction are described. In this amplifier, n unit amplifiers of the same design are connected in cascade. Short transmission lines are inserted between each amplifiers. The n-stage amplifler gives a gain n times that of the unit amplifier, and it has 900~1,000 MHz of flat bandwidth in 4 GHz band."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Microwave integrated circuits (MIC) using low-impedance high-power devices demand high-Q components. In addition, MIC using both lumped and distributed (microstrip) elements are finding applications at frequencies well above S-band. It is the purpose of this paper to describe some recent measurements on circuit properties consisting of: (1) the reactance and Q of lumped-elements at frequencies above S-band, and (2) the dispersive characteristics of microstrip transmission lines."
"When stripline circuits fail to meet performance goals the cause is likely to be mechanical in the case of homogeneous dielectrics and electrical in the case of reinforced materials. Dimensional instability and/or crazing tendencies are intrinsic in pure polymars, whereas the electrical problems encountered with reinforced materials are caused largely by misunderstanding of dielectric behavior and inadequate control of dielectric properties. The latter deficiencies are correctable. This paper describes a study of stripline dielectric properties of glass-cloth reinforced TFE (fluorocarbon) which has been carried out to: 1) Devise a simple and precise test for strip line dielectric constant and loss tangent. 2) Determine the mean dielectric constant and production limits of various copper clad constructions. 3) Measure the effect of clamping pressure on apparent dielectric constant. 4) Determine the effectiveness of a bonding film between layers as a means of eliminating the pressure effect."
"Techniques for determining the microwave properties of spacecraft thermal protection materials, such as subliming ablators, charring ablators, etc., under various thermal conditions are presented. Room temperature dielectric constants and loss tangents of the materials are obtained at several frequencies using standard cavity methods. High temperature dielectric properties can be inferred from real time transmission loss measurements in an arc tunnel. The dielectric properties of cold thermally degraded materials are inferred from transmission measurements in an arc tunnel and on an antenna pattern range. An independent determination of the dielectric properties of thermally degraded materials was obtained by comparing aperture admittance measurements of a ground-plane mounted rectangular waveguide, under the ablation material, with aperture admittance calculations assuming various inhomogeneous dielectric properties. Also included, for comparison, are calculations assuming the conducting char layer is replaced by a perfectly conducting metal sheet."
"A new precision waveguide attenuator is presented which is the dual of the rotary vane attenuator. The device consists of rectangular to circular waveguide transitions coupled to a section of circular waveguide containing a pair of longitudinal slots. The entire circular section may be rotated so as to couple varying amounts of microwave energy into external loads. The attenuation produced varies as 20 log Cos/sup 2//spl theta/ where /spl theta/ is angle of the slots with respect to the incident electric field. Since the absorbing material is external to the circular guide, this device is suitable for high power applications. The theoretical analysis is based on the equivalence of rectangular and circular waveguides insofar as slot coupling is concerned. The attenuation per unit length is derived and compared to the experimental results. A unit has been constructed which dissipates 10 KW average power and 100 KW peak power in the 2.6 - 3.95 GHz frequency band. The input VSWR was less than 1.15 through all values of attenuation and the insertion loss was less than 0.1 dB. The maximum value of attenuation was greater than 50 dB. Other units are described which were designed in the X- Band and Ku- Band frequency ranges."
"This paper presents a technique of measuring the change in the microwave reflection coefficient and Hall rotation angle while an exploslve-generated, high-pressure shock wave propagates through a dielectric or semiconductor material in a magnetic field. With this technique, the permittivity, conductivity, and Hall coefficient can be calculated. The technique is widely applicable to measurement of fast changes (10 nanoseconds) in microwave properties; furthermore, the principles are adaptable to lower and higher frequency measurements."
"The development of better microwave components has made it possible to design more sophisticated systems in the last decade. Great strides have also been made in creating new and better microwave semiconductor devices. In order to adequately characterize these new components and systems, accurate impedance measurements are required at many frequencies. Several manufacturers have recently introduced network analyzers which are capable of providing magnitude and phase information which can be read directly from panel meters. External connectors are provided for analog-to-digital conversion of the data. While these network analyzers are convenient to use, their accuracy is often not as high as desired due to impairment by system imperfections such as coupler directivity and reflections from small discontinuities. This paper discusses the use of a general purpose digital computer to remove the system errors from microwave impedance measurements while the measured data are being converted to a variety of forms useful for circuit design or device evaluation. Error reduction is accomplished by using the known values and the measured values of three reference impedances to form a matrix. The corrected impedance can then be found from the measured impedance by the use of matrix algebra."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The four-port YIG filter represents a new class of multifunction YIG components. This device, by proper coupling techniques, yields a reciprocal and tunable YIG filter with balanced outputs and two inputs. One input is coupled through the YIG resonator and is delivered as two equal amplitudes, 180 degrees out-of-phase signals at the balanced outputs. This signal, as it is coupled through the YIG, has a bandpass characteristic. The second input does not couple to the YIG but is split in-phase between the balanced outputs. The transmission of this signal does not involve the YIG resonance. The component thus combines the function of a tunable bandpass filter and a 180 degree hybrid junction, and so may be accordingly used. Experimental devices were built and evaluated as a combined preselector and balanced mixer, in particular, in regard to subharmonic mixing for multioctave performance. Also, the same device was evaluated as a tunable phase discriminator showing the versatility of this new component. Subharmonic mixing was evaluated using the four-port filter from 2.0 to 8.0 GHz while the discriminator, as breadboarded, was found to tune from 1.0 to 5.0 GHz with decade performance clearly feasible."
"A new type of junction circulators, in which two ordinary ferrite-loaded junctions are stacked and assembled in a common housing, is presented. The input power is divided into two junctions and the C W power rating doubled. The stacked circulator increases the freedom to choose the ferrite size, which must be optimized for a specific power level in each application because it affects closely the cost of the assembled circulator, and this design was proved to be very effective in improving the cost/power performance."
"The electrical characteristics of latching ferrite waveguide phasers have been fairly well established, and increased attention is currently directed towards fabrication simplicity to reduce cost. Construction techniques considered in this paper permit the use of loosely toleranced ceramic and metal parts without sacrificing electrical and thermal performance of the phaser. An integral consideration is the degree that the flux-drive technique allows the relaxation of mechanical and ferrite material parameter tolerances."
"Major emphasis in the microwave components area today is on economy. In the early pioneering days of microwave development, performance was the criterion of excellence, and cost played a very subordinate role. Microwave components have traditionally been state-of-the-art devices, almost hand-tailored units with relatively small production runs. The increasing application of microwaves to communications systems, a growing urge to invade consumer markets, and the advent of electronically scanned arrays have all underscored a need for more economical (even cheap!) microwave devices. This trend is associated not only with a tightened federal R & D dollar, but also with a maturing industry, Today it is not so much a question of whether or not a circuit function can be done, but can it be done economically. Increasingly, the tradeoffs between cost and performance are being exhaustively studied."
"The development of micrcwave integrated circuits has effected considerable interest in microstrip transmission lines on dielectric substrates. This paper discusses the slot line, a novel transmission line that may be used in association with, or as an alternative to microstrip. Slot line consists of a narrow slot in a thin conductive layer on one side of a high permittivity dielectric substrate; the other side is bare as shown in Fig. 1. The slot line offers some important advantages when compared to microstrip by virtue of the slot-made configuration, Fig. 2. The electric field is across the slot while the magnetic field is perpendicular to the slot and forms closed loops at half-wave intervals. Thus, the slot line possesses a region of elliptical polarization which should be useful for constructing a variety of non-reciprocal, ferrite, slot line devices such as resonance isolators, latching phase shifters, and circulators. Since the slot mode's voltage occurs across the slot on one side of the substrate, it is especially convenient for connecting shunt elements such as diodes, resistors and capacitors. Moreover, the same manufacturing techniques used for microstrip integrated circuits can be applied to slot line."
"Slot transmission line was introduced by S. B. Cohn in 1968 as an alternative transmission line for microminiature components. Slot line is potentially advantageous when compared to other planar transmission lines for applications requiring regions of circularly polarized magnetic field and/or shunt mounted elements. The line consists of two conductors separated by a gap on one side of a dielectric substrate. The dominant mode is a TE mode as shown in Figure 1. This mode resembles the dominant mode of rectangular waveguide and provides natural regions of circularly polarized magnetic field. Slot line applications will include ferrite phasers, circulators and isolators, diode switches and phasers, and filters. Combined microstrip and slot line circuitry seem to offer new possibilities for systems with the advantage of coupling easily through the substrate from one medium to the other."
"A novel integrated circuit transmission line with all conducting elements on the same side of a dielectric substrate (coplanar waveguide) has been demonstrated as a suitable structure for fabricating nonreciprocal microwave magnetic devices. As shown in Figure 1, the coplanar waveguide (CPW), consists of a strip of thin metallic film deposited on the surface of a dielectric slab with two ground electrodes running adjacent and parallel to the strip on the same surface. The r-f electric field between the center conductor and the ground electrodes tangential to the air-dielectric boundary produces a discontinuity in displacement-current density at the interface, thus giving rise to an axial as well as transverse component of r-f magnetic field shown in Figure 2. These r-f magnetic field components provide the elliptical polarization needed for nonreciprocal gyromagnetic devices. The coplanar configuration of the conducting elements permits easy connection of external shunt elements such as active devices in hybrid integrated circuits. It is also ideal for shunt connection of various elements in monolithic microwave integrated circuit systems."
"The lumped element circulator has been treated analytically and several lumped element circulators have been described. Recent advances in thin film technology such as the thin film crossover as developed by J. P. Sitarik (BTL) who used photo-resist as the insulating layer at the crossover point and more recently the air crossover by Martin P. Lepselter (BTL) offer new design possibilities for lumped element circulators which decrease their size, increase the possibility of integration and extend the range of feasibility from L-band up into the higher regions of the microwave spectrum."
"A wide variety of ferrite circulator and switches is being used in UHF channels of current wireless systems. Theory of three- and four-port circulators and switches has reached a fairly advanced development stage. Appropriate devices in our country and elsewhere have parameters that are pretty close to the maximum attainable. Nevertheless, the problems concerning the improvement of electric strength and reduction of losses continue to be topical. They are especially urgent when operational peculiarities of the system call for a considerable number of such devices. The currently known junction patterns for several circulators, though lending considerable operational possibilities, are on the other hand not optimal from the point of view of electric strength (each circulator carries full power) and losses (the circulator losses are added). Increase in the number of circulators or switches also leads to reduction of reliability of the set as a whole. Therefore it is but natural to attempt a combination of functions of a number of circulators (switches) in a single device. This paper deals with six-port devices permitting an increase of electric strength as well as reduction of losses."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In designing varactor multiplier chains, it is normally necessary to include isolators between the multipliers in order to eliminate spurious signals which are due to parametric oscillations. These oscillations can occur when two adjacent multipliers are not perfectly matched. In this paper, we shall present a method for the design of multiplier chains which are highly stable, eliminating the need for isolators."
"With varying degrees of approximation, the parametric action in many frequency multipliers can be viewed as the coupling of impedances at different frequencies by means of an impedance inverter. One such multiplier which can be so characterized is the charge-storage multiplier without idlers. In the equivalent circuit for such a multiplier, as shown in Fig. 1, the time-varying action of the diode is represented by the impedance inverter marked K."
"Some properties of high power pulsed GaAs diodes operated in the LSA-mode have been investigated. The present study involves both boat grown, here referred to as \"bulk\", as well as epitaxial GaAs. The quality of epitaxial GaAs is higher than the quality of bulk GaAs, especially with respect to random doping fluctuations and compensation of carriers. In the case of LSA operation fluctuations in doping density requires light loading of the oscillator in order to prevent formation of high field domains resulting in lower efficiencies. The compensation of bulk GaAs gives rise to a negative temperature coefficient of resistivity which severely limits the operation at high duty cycles or over wide temperature ranges. However, as of yet no epitaxial GaAs is available with thicknesses suitable for very high peak power LSA diodes, bulk material has been partly used in the present investigation to demonstrate the power capabilities and operating conditions of LSA diodes. Some recent results with epitaxial GaAs diodes operated in thick waveguide iris circuits are discussed in the latter part of the paper."
"An all-transistor power amplifier which delivers a cw power output of 1 kilowatt at 400 MHz has been designed and fabricated. In this design approach, a number of discrete transistors are connrected in parallel to form a power module, and the outputs of a quantity of modules are then combined to achieve the desired total output power. The discrete transistor used in the amplifier is the RCA-2N5016 overlay type. When operated as a single device in an optimum 400-MHz amplifier circuit, this transistor produces a power output of 15 to 18 watts for a power input of 5 to 6 watts."
"The high power duplexer array illustrated in Figure 1 consists of two balanced hybrid duplexers. Each duplexer is rated at 5 megawatts. The high power transmission is divided equally into two paths. Each path furnishes power to half an orthogonal-feed RADAR antenna which radiates 10 megawatts in a circular pattern. During high power transmission, the diode driver simultaneously supply forward bias to all T-R diodes. Since the conducting diodes offer a short-circuit across the collinear ports of the high power hybrids, the hybrids are able to route most of the power into the antenna. The leakage signals which escape the T-R short-circuits are terminated harmlessly in the dummy loads which are located on the low power hybrids. Total high power isolation is the sum of the T-R and hybrid isolations. Total high power transmission loss is the sum of the hybrid line and T-R short-circuit losses for each parallel path."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings. The principal objective of this panel discussion is to present some of the major problems encountered in dealing with noise in devices and how the device noise affects system performance, Noise in Gunn diode oscillators, avalanche diode oscillators, and multiplier chain sources will be discussed from the component aspect, followed by a discussion of the effects of these noise sources in radar and communication systems, Each panel member will present a formal review of noise in devices or systems as applied to his own area of interest, After the formal presentations, the panel will be open for general discussion with audience participation."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Ridley and Watkins conceived of the idea that electrons in solids could be forced to undergo a change in energy and mass that would lead to bulk negative resistance. Hilsum later developed the idea as it applied to Gallium Arsenide with high electric fields applied. Ridley subsequently pointed out the natural tendency of such bulk negative resistance devices to form high-field, traveling domains. Quite independently from the development of these analytical concepts, Gunn experimentally discovered microwave transit-time oscillations in Gallium Arsenide subjected to high electric fields."
"A general large-signal analysis of the quenched-domain mode of Gunn-effect devices has been developed which is applicable to any device without extensive device measurements. Some applications of such an analysis are demonstrated and others are being investigated. The phenomenological model includes such effects as domain formation, domain quenching, domain behavior in the presence of an RF voltage, displacement currents, the voltage dependence of domain width and others."
"The YIG-tuned Gunn oscillator has the capability of achieving broadband tuning with low residual FM noise, as good as or better than that of a reflex Klystron. Our approach to YIG-tuning a Gunn diode is shown in Fig. 1. The uniform precession mode of the YIG sphere acts as a magnetically tunable transmission type resonator. The diode and output loops are orthogonally located so that the coupling is null in the absence of the YIG sphere or magnetic field. The capability of achieving smooth, broadband tuning with medium power output with this approach is illustrated in Fig. 2. The diode was fabricated from Varian-grown, n-type, epitaxial GaAs. The carrier concentration in the solution-grown active layer was 2.5 x 10/sup 15/ cm/sup -3/. The thickness of the epitaxial layer was about 9 m. The Gunn diode was mounted in a 0.76 mm o.d. x 0.3 mm high ceramic package. The YIG sphere had an outside diameter of 1 mm, saturation magnetization of 1780 G, and a line-width of 0.5 Oe. The capability of achieving low noise oscillation, which is comparable to that of a Varian Gunn effect oscillator mounted in a waveguide cavity, is illustrated in Fig. 3. The data was taken from a diode which was oscillating at a frequency of 10.25 GHz with 40 mW of output power. Note that for modulation frequencies greater than 1 KHz from the carrier, the FM noise is as good as or better than that of an ordinary reflex Klystron. This rather good FM noise performance was achieved through circuit optimization and through improvements in the Gunn diode fabrication. The YIG-tuned Gunn oscillator was built for use with a small electromagnet having a gap of 2.8 mm. The entire oscillator, including magnet, weighs 445g and is pictured in Fig. 4."
"Investigations have been carried out on the effect of temperature upon L.S.A. oscillations, in the band 26 to 40 GHz. Measurements on n/sup +/-n/sup ++/-n-n/sup +/ GaAs 'sandwich' devices have been made over a range of ambient temperatures -50/spl deg/C to +100/spl deg/C. To avoid significant temperature gradients within the active 'n' region the pulse length was chosen to be short compared with the thermal time constant of the device (about 1/spl mu/s) and the mean input power was maintained at a low level. The results are interpreted with the aid of a computer analysis of the interaction between device and circuit. The simulation considers a realistic device with doping contacts and various random doping fluctuations and attempts to explain some of the essential elements of the experimental performance."
"It is a way of obtaining a higher output power to operate microwave generators in parallel combinations. It was already reported that several watts of output were obtained with impatt diodes in parallel and series combinations. While, such the attempt at Gunn diodes in CW operation is not seen yet, except for a case of 300 mW output in X-band with a cascaded Gunn oscillator. The present report is related to experimental results of Gunn diodes in composite structure."
"This paper describes the use of injection phase locked Gunn effect oscillators as module transmitters for distributed phased array applications. These devices are capable of direct dc to microwave conversion with reasonable efficiencies and useful power levels. However, certain problem areas must be investigated before they can be successfully employed. These areas include peak and average power output, sensitivity of output power and frequency to the microwave circuit and bias voltage, phase control, reproducibility and cost, driver requirements, and temperature and frequency stability."
"The use of Gunn oscillators in CW Doppler RADAR, as local oscillators, and in other system applications often requires automatic frequency and/or phase control, frequency modulation or amplitude modulation. The frequency modulation of CW Gunn oscillators by simultaneously applying ac and dc bias voltages has been described by King and Wasse, who discussed possible modulation mechanisms. Hobson has reported an experimental study of voltage tuning using a biconical cavity. In this paper we present the results of a theoretical and experimental study of AM, FM and AFC of wide-band tunable Gunn oscillators operating in the X-band. The oscillators consist of a Gunn diode mounted on a post in rectangular waveguide. The circuit is loaded with an iris and is tuned over the band with a sliding short located behind the post. The output power as a function of frequency is shown in Fig. 1 for a typical oscillator."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings."
"The various mechanisms for the detection of millimeter-to-infrared radiation will be surveyed. Techniques to be covered include intrinsic photoconductors (such as HgCdTe), extrinsic photoconductors (mainly germanium doped with various impurities), free-carrier absorbers (such as InSb), superconducting Josephson-effect point contacts, carbon,and Ge cryogenic bolometers, and room-temperature bolometers (such as the thermistor, thermoelectric, and pyroelectric detectors)."
"Most applications of lasers require a means for high frequency modulation of the phase, frequency, amplitude or direction of the beam. Light modulators and beam deflectors based on the electro-optic effect in crystals have been operated at X-band (10/sup 10/cps) and there is no reason why they should not work at much higher frequencies. A number of devices have demonstrated the practical feasibility of this technique for some applications while other studies have pointed up the inherent limitations of this and other known modulation methods in important potential applications. The nature of the electro-optic effect, some of the important materials for its application and some of the devices that utilize the effect will be discussed from a tutorial point of view."
"Current nonlinear optical experiments employ birefringence to compensate for the refractive index dispersion to increase the constructive interaction length. Most of the semiconductors have large nonlinear susceptibility coefficients; however, lack the necessary birefringence. Their use has been inhibited by the lack of means to satisfy the phase-match condition for efficient nonlinear interactions. A quasi-microwave approach for the optical region is reported as a means to fulfill the phase-match condition. This approach employs a nonlinear dielectric transmission line with dimenaions comparable to tie wavelength wherein control of the polarization, kind and order of mode is exercised."
"Due to a lack of powerful signal sources in the millimeter- and submillimeter -wavelength range, a sensitive detector is an essential requirement for work in this frequency band. Adaptations of microwave and optical devices to this wavelength region have many limitations. One means of circumventing the problems associated with operation in this region is to convert the short wavelength radiation to lower frequencies where low noise detection techniques are available. This paper describes the theoretical and experimental evaluation of a downconverter which utilizes paramagnetic materials. Using materials with appropriate zero field splittings this device should be operable over the millimeter-through far-infrared-wavelength range."
"Several noteworthy improvements in the state-of-the-art of millimeter wave receiver components have been obtained which are to be reported in this paper. Planar, passivated, GaAs Schottky barrier diodes with very high frequency cut-off characteristics have been developed, and regularly reproduced. These diodes, having f/sub co/ /spl ap/ 1000 GHz at zero bias, have been tailored for use in a line of mixers that covers the 26.5 GHz to 110 GHz range with a typical conversion loss of 5.5 dB at 35 GHz and 8.0 dB at 94 GHz. Mixer noise ratio typically is 1.2 or better for all units. Currently available designs have IF passbands of 100 - 500 MHz, 0.5 - 1.0 GHz, and 1.0 - 2.0 GHZ. The very high f/sub co/ of the diodes has allowed the development of an uncooled degenerate parametric amplifier which has attained a noise figure of 1.7 dB while operating with a gain of 15 dB and an instantaneous signal bandwidth of greater than 800 MHz. The center frequency of the amplifiers is in the 30 - 35 GHz range. The pump power required for full band operation is 10 - 20 mw. The GaAs Schottky barrier diodes have also been designed into several baseband detectors. When biased optimally, an improvement of some 20 - 30 dB in tangential signal sensitivity (TSS) can be obtained in the 70 - 90 GHz range over the TSS available from a biased bolometer and narrow band detector amplifier. Typically the TSS = -51 dBm at 35 GHz and -40 dBm at 94 GHz with a video bandwidth of 10 MHz."
"This paper describes the structure and 3-dB coupling characteristics of a newly developed \"figure-8 hybrid\" operated in a circular TE/sub 01/ mode, the experimental results for a band-splitting filter using the present hybrids and its application to the branching filter system for the millimeter-wave communication system."
"This paper deals with low-pass filters for quasi-optical microwave, millimeter-wave, or possibly infrared systems where the energy is channeled by focused-beam transmission lines, or by oversized waveguide. Most filters previously studied for applications of these types have been of the kind which attenuate in their stop-bands by reflecting the energy whereas the type of quasi-optical filter to be discussed herein is quite different in that the stop-band attenuation is achieved by absorbing the incident energy. This feature eliminates possible undesirable interaction effects between the filter and the rest of the system. Also, this particular type of filter structure is very attractive in that it has a large stop-band width, and it appears that the stop-band is relatively unaffected by the presence of higher-order modes."
"A perturbation technique is employed for dielectric waveguides with a small dielectric difference between the guide and its surrounding medium, resulting in an analytically simple, selfconsistent, theory for surface modes. The field equations are shown to manifest bounded waveguide simplicity. In partitular the transverse electric and magnetic fields are related by a constant and possess the orthogonality of a metal waveguide. Furthermore, an analytic expression is presented for the eigenvalues. Although the analysis is based on small dielectric differences, it is shown to be adequate when the inside dielectric is as large as twice the outside. The results of the perturbation analysis are applied to the excitation of a semi-infinite dielectric rod excited by a uniform field."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the characteristics of the circuits used to obtain the high efficiency TRAPATT mode of operation in avalanche diodes. A number of interesting facts about the nature of the TRAPATT mode can be inferred from the circuit analysis. The circuit analysis has also been used for the simulation of a complete 500 MHz TRAPATT oscillator on the computer. A computer-generated movie has been made which shows the operation of the simulated TRAPATT oscillator. The simulation of the complete oscillator is very helpful in identifying the physical phenomena which lead to the TRAPATT mode of oscillation. Unfortunately, obtaining the complete solution of all pertinent equations is not practical for many parameter studies. However, a good deal of information about this mode of operation can be obtained by analyzing the circuit and using the results in connection with experimental measurements. The oscillators to be considered here have been realized in coaxial form, similar to the 500 MHz TRAPATT oscillator shown in figure 1. Typically, the oscillator requires some impedance matching element near the diode (although this is not always necessary) and a bandpass filter"
"Microwave amplification has been obtained from silicon diodes operated in avalanche resonance pumped modes. DC to RF conversion efficiency was 25% at 1.3 GHz for a saturation gain of 12 dB and a bandwidth of 3%. A nonlinear theory predicts a large dynamic range and efficiencies up to 70%."
"A simple microstrip oscillator circuit has been designed for use with the high-power high-efficiency avalanche diodes recently reported. Power outputs of the order of 100 W at L-band with efficiencies between 20 and 30% compare reasonably with that from the coaxial line circuit. This result demonstrates the capability of integration of such high-efficiency diodes for system applications. The diode chips used for the microstrip circuit are punch-through PNN/sup +/ silicon mesa diodes with junctions formed by diffusion of boron into N-type silicon epitaxial wafers. The resistivity of the epitaxial layer is 5 to 7 ohm-cms, and the width of the N-region is about 6 /spl mu/m. Mesa diameters range from 0.018 in. to 0.023 in., and the breakdown voltages of the diodes are between 120 and 160 volts."
"Methods of extending the dynamic range of solid state negative resistance amplifiers have been suggested which employ a \"traveling wave\" approach, and a cascading approach. This has also been applied to oscillators. There are reports of frequency locking of several coupled oscillators to combine their individual output powers. This paper describes the generation of 1 Watt CW at X-band by a specific method of cascading one avalanche diode oscillator and three avalanche diode power amplifiers. The diodes used are the diffused gallium arsenide units recently constructed in an inverted structure in the Micro State device laboratory, capable of generating over 300 mW CW at X-band."
"The use of a general purpose digital computer to convert microwave impedance measurement data to useful forms and simultaneously correct for system errors was described in an earlier paper. The method is applied to the small-signal characterization of germanium IMPATT diodes in the frequency range of 2.0 to 8.0 GHz in this paper. Since the equivalent circuit of the IMPATT diode is at least as complicated as equivalent circuits for other types of microwave diodes, the techniques demonstrated can easily be applied to other types of diodes."
"An oscillator/mixer assembly has been developed which employs an avalanche transit-time oscillator (ATTO) as the local oscillator for a wide band mixer. The oscillator is electrically tunable from 7.5 to 11.5 GHz, with a yttrium-iron-garnet toroid as the principal tuning element, and the overall single side-band noise figure of the assembly varies from 9 db (at center of band) to 11 db at the band edges. When used with a klystron local oscillator the mixer displays a noise figure of less than 9 db over this frequency range."
"Negative resistance oscillators can perform various functions other than just fixed frequency oscillations. For example, the electronic tuning effect is commonly used to generate FM signals and the injection locking phenomenon can be utilized for FM amplification, limiting and demodulation. For fixed frequency oscillations, the oscillator resonant circuit is generally designed to have as high an external Q as possible for good frequency stability and noise performance. However, for the other applications mentioned above, relatively broadband circuits are desired. This paper discusses various factors to be considered in their design."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Waveguide filters for rejection of harmonic power content of high-power transmitters are widely used, and corrugated waveguide or waffle-iron filters are most commonly employed for this application. The method of design described in the literature is based on the use of image parameters, and may be considered a rather complicated non-optimum procedure which may be difficult to control, particularly in regard to pass band VSWR, since empirical adjustments are usually required. The new methods described here are based on synthesis techniques, and give practical results close to the initial specifications. Only filters of the reflective type will be discussed, but occasionally conversion to the absorptive class is feasible."
"Predistortion is a standard technique for correcting the effects of energy dissipation in filters, making their response conform to that of ideal filters. The problem of dissipation is particularly noticeable in narrowband bandpass filters used in microwave communications systems. Dissipation makes the passband edges slump downward, as shown in Figure 1, which can cause distortion and intermodulation. In predistorting a filter, we allow for dissipation in the initial design. A response approximating the ideal response can be approximated at the price of increased insertion loss. The flat response of predistorted filters is advantageous when used in high-capacity microwave communications systems; however, the filters have an additional property which makes them especially attractive for certain applications in microwave communications systems."
"Although wide bandwidth microwave elliptic-function filters have previously been reported, this paper describes a circuit which provides, for the first time, a narrow bandwidth elliptic-function response at microwave frequencies. It is for narrow bandwidth applications (from 5 percent to a fraction of a percent) that the elliptic-function filter offers its most important advantages over other filter types--lower loss and greater selectivity. These features are verified by theoretical analysis and experimental data on a 1-percent bandwidth S-band stripline filter. The design of the filter, which is based upon the low-pass prototype, is simple to obtain with the relationships presented in this paper, and the elliptic-function response is readily realizable in printed or other TEM transmission lines. A waveguide elliptic-function filter is also discussed, but experimental verification of this has not yet been attempted."
"A design procedure is presented whereby compact, narrow-band (<30%) T.E.M. line, band-pass, elliptic function filters may be realized. The proposed realization is in the form of a stepped impedance, digital n-wire line which is one half of a wavelength long at midband and short circuited to ground at both ends, where the digital line is stepped in impedance along any arbitrary prescribed plane in the filter. Due to its physical form and the mode of electrical operation, the filter has been called \"The Stepped Cavity Coupled Elliptic Filter\". Recently, \"The Stepped Digital Elliptic Filter\" has been proposed as a realization of the narrow-band, band-pass elliptic filter and consisted of a stepped impedance digital n-wire line , one quarter of a wavelength long at mid-band where the line was shorted to ground at one end and open-circuited at the opposite end. In this filter, the fringing capacitances at the open-circuited ends of the line necessitate the use of a compensation procedure based upon an estimation of these parasitic lumped capacitances. Consequently, in the very narrow-band cases, where these end effect capacitances have a considerable effect upon the performance of the filter, it is very difficult to construct a filter with the required electrical performance. In the new design procedure, this problem is eliminated since the digital line is short circuited to ground at both ends and this also provides the filter with greater physical rigidity."
"Digital computer techniques are developed for the approximation of the periodic frequency characteristics of commensurate transmission line circuits. For a given periodic delay or loss-derivative function the system function is derived automatically using a direct method. Any suitable synthesis program will complete the design."
"Techniques have been developed which extend the frequency range of ring magic tees to 7:1 or more. Experimental 250 to 1000 MHz ring magic tees have been built with 0.6 db insertion loss (above the 3 db power split), 0.2 db amplitude balance, 2/spl deg/ phase balance, and a 1.5:1 maximum VSWR over the 2-octave frequency range. An experimental 300 to 1800 MHz ring magic tee has been built with the performance shown in Figure 5. Figure 1 shows schematically the basic ring magic tee, and a typical curve of VSWR versus electrical length. The four transmission lines are nominally 70.7 ohms characteristic impedance for a maximally flat design. If the line impedances are made 65 ohms, then the basic design has an equal ripple 1.18:1 VSWR bandwidth of one octave."
"Several techniques have been described in the literature for the design of Magic-T circuits in a strip-transmission-line configuration. Among these are the symmetrical quadrature coupler used in conjunction with the 90/spl deg/ Schiffman phase shifter, the tapered (or stepped) line coupler designed using an impedance transformer prototype, and the asymmetric coupler with a Schiffman phase compensator. This paper describes a new cascaded coupled TEM transmission line Magic-T which requires less overall path length to achieve a specified performance than any of these earlier designs. The design employed in this report was suggested by the unusual configuration employed by R. Pegis. The coupler equivalent for an optical filter design of this broadband -3 db optical filter has the performance of a Magic-T over a portion of the coupler bandwidth. This coupler has a number of coupled sections which have monotonically increasing even mode impedance and an equal number of non-monotonic weakly coupled sections. The resulting 8-section coupler gives a -3.01/spl plusmn/ .22 db coupling over a 17:1 bandwidth. This is slightly better than the balance which can be achieved with an asymmetric coupler of 8 sections. The existence of such an asymmetric non-monotonic Magic-T was also suggested by Young ."
"This paper describes the calculation of fringing capacitances in the suspended substrate transmission medium. In this medium, conductors are photoetched on one side of a dielectric card supported approximately halfway between two parallel ground planes. Usually a large number of thin film circuits are supported on a single card and are therefore coupled. The parameters needed to characterize coupled microwave structures are the surge impedances and phase velocities of the normal modes. For lumped circuits, or combinations of lumped circuits and distributed structures, which are quite common, the parasitic capacitances between adjacent conductors and the capacitances to ground are required. All these parameters can be found from the odd and even mode static capacitances for two parallel coupled lines. The transmission medium is inhomogeneous (the dielectric medium that supports the conductors is suspended in air as seen in Figure 1) so that not only are the system capacitances required with dielectrics present, but also required are these capacitances with all dielectrics removed. From this last, homogeneous, case the line inductance in an assumed TEM mode is found. The methods of calculation outlined here of the even and odd mode capacitances for both homogeneous and inhomogeneous cases are based on a variational approximation and on several conformal transformations. Their use at an interactive time share terminal has proven very valuable in the design of low loss, high performance microwave circuits."
"In this paper, two-port networks composed of two identical, coupled transmission lines embedded in an inhomogeneous dielectric (e.g., suspended substrate, microstrip) are investigated. The ABCD parameters of circuit configurations, considered by Jones and Bolljahn, are obtained for the case of inhomogeneous dielectric. Equivalent circuits of these networks are also given. It is shown that the characteristics of such circuits differ markedly from those embedded in a homogeneous medium. In addition experimental results are presented for three types of circuits which have been constructed and tested. There is excellent agreement between the experimental results and those predicted theoretically on the basis of the equivalent circuits ."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The purpose of this paper is to point out the potential usefulness in microwave acoustics of the large body of analytical concepts and techniques which have been developed in microwave electromagnetic theory. These methods are readily transferable because the acoustic and electromagnetic equations are basically analogous. This is brought out clearly by expressing the acoustic equations in the vector notation normally used in electromagnetism."
"Until recently, acoustic devices have been of the bulk form. The typical bulk, wave device consists of a crystalline block to which opposing piezoelectric transducers are attached. The piezoelectric transducer emits a narrow beam of acoustic energy into the material. Some of the energy is intercepted at the output transducer and reconverted to an electrical signal. The acoustic signal is virtually inaccessible during transit. If the acoustic energy is moved to the surface of the crystal, a considerable amount of manipulation becomes feasible, including wave guidance, switching, amplification, tapping, and power splitting functions. This, in essence, is the microsound principle, the exploitation of which is the subject of this paper. The manipulation of the acoustic energy is accomplished with the aid of three fundamental components: the transducer, the amplifier, and the waveguide."
"The recent observation of acoustic surface waves up to 3 GHz offers the promise of microwave-acoustic integrated-circuits and components, which would be five orders of magnitude smaller than their electromagnetic equivalents. The practicality of such \"microsound\" circuits will depend to a considerable degree on the magnitude of the transducer insertion loss and on the acoustic propagation loss. The first part of this paper will deal with these losses on optically polished dielectric single crystal substrates. It should be noted that the acoustic losses in polycrystalline materials are prohibitively high at microwave frequencies. The second part will deal with the propagation of Rayleigh-type spin-waves on magnetic substrates. These surface spin-waves are nonreciprocal in their propagation characteristics and therefore offer the possibility of surface wave isolators."
"The concept of a spin echo was first introduced and subsequently observed in a system of nuclear spins by E. L. Hahn in 1950. Later experiments performed by R. J. Blume in 1958 first demonstrated the phenomenon in electron spin systems. These echo experiments have since been the subject of a considerable amount of research performed by Mims, et. al. Recently, Bozanic , et. al. extended the temperature range at which spin echo experiments were performed from liquid helium to ambient temperatures by observing spin echoes in irradiated fused silica. On the basis of these room temperature experiments it is now feasible to utilize the spin echo phenomenon in microwave signal storage devices with time delays in excess of 150 /spl mu/sec attained at room temperature for X-band signals. Other schemes to produce delays such as using superconducting lines, electron beams, acoustic and magnetic waves are impractical for delays greater than 10 /spl mu/sec in the spectrum above C-Band."
"Recently, it has been shown that an inverted common-collector transistor circuit can be used to synthesize a high-Q inductance that is useful at microwave frequencies for realizing filters, matching networks, multiplexer, and other normally passive components. The basic transistor circuit is shown in Fig. 1(a) . The principle of operation may be explained with the aid of Fig. 1(b), which shows the focus of the quantity (1 - /spl alpha/) in the complex plane as a function of frequency. (/spl alpha/ is the short-circuit current gain of the transistor and /spl omega//sub alpha/ is the /spl alpha/-cutoff frequency.) It is seen that the circuit is basically an impedance rotator. If Z is a resistor (in the base), a virtual inductance is seen at the emitter; if Z is an inductance, a virtual negative resistance appears at the emitter. Typical experimental plots of the real and imaginary parts of Z/sup l/ , the impedance seen at the emitter, as functions of frequency are shown in Fig. 2. The ability to synthesize both an inductance and a negative resistance places this circuit in a unique position with regard to its use in the realization of impedance-matching networks for microwave acoustic delay lines. This is because the negative resistance can be used to compensate exactly for the positive resistances that represent electrical dissipation losses in the transducer and matching network. The significance of this technique will be made clear in what follows."
"The variable delay and processing of RF and microwave signals is a current problem of considerable importance both for the many military applications in RADAR and electronic countermeasures and for the civilian applications in signal processing. The very low velocity of acoustic waves, as compared to the propagation velocity of electromagnetic signals, permits the fabrication of physically compact systems capable of storing and processing electromagnetic signals. For example, a 1 /spl mu/sec delay in a non-acoustic delay line might require 700 feet of coaxial cable as compared to the 1/2 cm of material required in an acoustic delay line. While acoustic delay lines have fulfilled many of the needs of fixed delay lines, adequate continuously variable delay lines are not presently available. Among the several suggestions for obtaining a continuously variable delay, the use of the laser-acoustic interaction has been shown to be among the most promising. This paper will discuss the principles of such a laser-acoustic delay line and the extension of this device to a microwave signal processing device for performing either time compression, expansion and reversal or pulse compression, expansion and reversal."
"The theoretical work of Damon and Eshbach leads to the prediction of magnetostatic surface and volume wave propagation in ferromagnetic slabs. Experimental work of Brundle and Freedman with slabs of flux-grown YIG have demonstrated the existence of both these wave classes. In this paper we report the use of YIG films grown by the method of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) on gadolinium gallium garnet to generate such waves. CVD allows films with thickness orders of magnitude smaller than those fabricated from flux-grown material to be obtained. The advantage of such thin films is the uniformity of internal dc field that can be obtained. Figure 1 is a plot of the demagnetizing field in a 1 cm x 0.5 cm YIG slab of varying thickness as calculated from the analysis of Joseph and Schlomann. The external dc field is along the z-axis. The demagnetization variation is shown along this direction from the face to the center of the slab. For a 10 micron thick film, approximately 60 percent of the distance along the z-axis varies by less than 1.0 oe and 95 percent by less than 10 oe. This is about two orders of magnitude less than a slab of 1 mm thickness, which is a typical thickness used by previous investigators. Measurements were made on epitaxial YIG films ranging in thickness from 4 microns to 50 microns. The ferromagnetic resonance linewidth of these epitaxial films has been measured and found to be typically 1.5 oe at X-band, when the bias field is applied perpendicular to the film plane."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A new automatic optimization method called Razor Search is presented. The method, which is based on pattern search, was specifically developed for the optimization by computer of networks for which the objective is to minimize the maximum deviation of some response from a desired ideal response specification. Examples falling within the scope of this paper are shown in Fig. 1."
"This paper describes a procedure for synthesizing transmission networks which are interconnections of uniform line elements. An iterative, digital computer algorithm is developed which achieves a dominant pole synthesis. The line lengths and the characteristic impedances are controlled individually, which gives design flexibility not found in synthesis procedures based on Richard's transformation. Thus, the characteristic impedances may be restricted by upper and lower bounds when there is no restriction on the line lengths. The procedure is detailed for a TEM mode structure of alternating open stubs and connecting lines. The method uses a Newton-Raphson iterative scheme to adjust the characteristic impedances and lengths of the transmission lines for a prescribed set of dominant transmission poles. If the poles are chosen to give a low-pass characteristic when all of the transmission zeros are at infinity, the finite transmission zeros produced by the stubs modify substantially the transfer characteristic realised. By controlling the stub line lengths and modifying the dominant pole positions an improved transmission characteristic and bounded characteristic impedances can be achieved simultaneously."
"The design of low-noise broadband microwave integrated amplifiers is particularly suited to the application of optimization techniques. Circuit theory is incapable of synthesizing these circuits, and bread-boarding is expensive as well as difficult. The analytical solution of microwave integrated circuits has been developed, and though complicated, is suitable for computer solution. It is then possible for the engineer to use a computer model of a circuit as a breadboard; however, with the many variables and the conflicting objectives of high flat broadband gain and low-noise figure it is best to leave the tuning of this breadboard to an optimization routine. This paper presents an objective function for the optimization of low noise broadband amplifiers. The effectiveness of this technique is demonstrated with examples."
"The purpose of this work is to determine the usefulness of numerical-analysis in the design of 3-port waveguide circulators. Present design techniques permit the selection of an optimum ferrite for a particular frequency range, but very little detailed prediction of performance as is usual in filter design, for example, has been attempted. This is due to the complexity of the problem and the fact that almost all of the successful empirically designed configurations are not amenable to theoretical analysis. Our efforts have been directed towards those structures which can in principle be analysed rigorously, but which do not necessarily have good performance rather than those which have good performance but can be modeled only approximately. In this paper we are interested in the feasibility of a detailed waveguide circulator theory, and we wish to clarify the effects of some important parameters. The result of this work has been computer-generated, simulated swept-frequency predictions of circulator performance which can be directly compared with laboratory measurements."
"Whenever one devises a mathematical expression to solve a field quantity, one must be concerned with numerical analysis. Other than those engineers involved exclusively in measurements or in the proof of general existence theorems or in administration, the remainder of us are numerical analysts to a degree. Whenever we prescribe a sequence of mathematical operations, we are designing an algorithm. A theory is to us a means of extrapolating our experiences in order to make predictions. A mathematical theory, of a physical problem, produces numbers and a good theory produces accurate numbers easily."
"The use of the computer as a primary tool in semi- or fully-automatic network design is currently of considerable interest. Perhaps of less interest, but nonetheless quite important, is the use of computers as a primary tool in solving complex electromagnetic field problems in order to obtain useful microwave design data. In the latter case, for two-dimensional TEM problems, the integral and difference equation methods are those most often programmed on a computer to obtain the needed data. An engineer wishing to use one of these methods to solve some complex field problem is faced, at the onset, with important, practical questions: Which method requires less analytical preparation? Which method requires less preparation for programming, and takes less time to program? Which method will cost less oveall in obtaining the data to the required accuracy? What are some of the particularly bad problem spots for which a given method may fail to give accurate results?"
"In a microwave system for guiding electromagnetic waves one often encounters waveguide bends formed by the interconnection of straight and continuously curved waveguides of rectangular cross section. Precise numerical computations and extensive analytical investigations of the angular propagation constants for the various electromagnetic modes which may exist in the curved section alone have been investigated by many researchers, in particular by Cochran and Pecina (1966). In contradistinction to the above, the propagation constants and modal fields which may exist in the straight sections alone are trivial. An understanding of the propagation of electromagnetic waves through these waveguide bends requires, therefore, a complete comprehension of the intermodal coupling that takes place at the various junctions and discontinuities. This talk will discuss in detail the coupling that occurs at a junction between a straight and a continuously curved waveguide of rectangular cross section."
"The analysis of many microwave devices, for example, an electromagnetic cavity containing inhomogeneous anisotropic medium, involves the solution of a vector field, boundary value problem in three dimensions. The method of moments (in particular, that of Galerkin or Rayleigh-Ritz) is a well known general technique of field computation. For a region of arbitrary shape, a basic difficulty of the method of moments is the generation of a set of expansion functions that are complete over the region and which converge not only inside the region but also on the boundary. This paper outlines a systematic technique for generating such a set with the aid of a computer."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Parametric amplifiers have been used for many years in low noise receiver applications. Within the past few years, the development of direct solid state pump sources, such as avalanche diode and Gunn-effect oscillators, has widened the utility of paramps to include systems for which klystron pumped devices are unsuitable. These solid state pumped paramps provide low noise amplification in reasonably compact packages with low power consumption and excellent long term stability."
"Hybrid integrated parametric amplifiers (paramps) have been developed for different S-Band frequencies. The amplifier circuits were etched on a 1 in. x 1 in. copper-on-alumina substrate. Voltage gain-bandwidth products of 800 MHz and noise figures as low as 1.2 dB were measured. An IMPATT-Diode oscillator was used as the pump source. The paramp noise problem due to the IMPATT oscillator was determined and remedied."
"The recent availability of accurately characterized transistors with maximum frequencies of oscillation in excess of 7 GHz has made possible the development of electrically tunable oscillators and wideband amplifiers with greater than octave coverage in the microwave region. Utilizing these devices on thin film microcircuits allows for more complex designs and the combining of functions on a single substrate. The component to be described combines a YIG tuned oscillator and a wideband amplifier on a .500 by .375 inch sapphire substrate."
"Recent advances in microwave circuit technology and characterization capability have led to new approaches to microwave circuit design and manufacture. As an example in the use of such new methods, this paper will describe the design of an L-band transistor amplifier intended for phased array applications. The circuit and device designs and assembly procedures developed were specifically oriented for large-scale manufacture with a consequent emphasis on the use of computers for data processing and component selection."
"A high power transistor amplifier with an output of 200 W peak at a center frequency of 432 MHz is described. Eight TRW 2N5177 transistors are operated in parallel by means of a network of split-tee hybrid junctions. The individual amplifier circuits, as well as the hybrid junction network, are etched microstrip circuits on high-purity alumina substrates."
"A study of solid-state integrated microwave circuits, techniques, and components was conducted by Texas Instruments Incorporated. The purpose of this study was to define, both analytically and experimentally, the problem areas associated with integrated circuits when various combinations of active and passive circuit elements are required to perform a complete circuit function at microwave frequencies. In order that future operational requirements would be met, specific design goals were established. These design goals were an FM telemetry transmitter and a command receiver. The study program consisted of four general categories of effort: Analytical study of techniques and components, System definition and parameter analysis, Circuit design, Fabrication and test."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The ideal instrument for radio mapping would make high resolution maps in a short time with good temperature discrimination. Good temperature resolution, except at those wavelengths where the atmosphere is highly absorptive and/ or the state -of-the-art instrumentation has not developed sensitive radiometers, is usually not a limitation. In radio mapping, good spatial and temporal resolutions are conflicting and, generally, radio systems that have good spatial resolution have poor time resolution, and vice versa. This generalization is not true for some of the electronically scanning antenna systems operating at the longer wavelengths."
"The Army is interested in detection systems operating on the earth or at relatively low altitudes . Hopefully, these systems will detect targets, identify them, and guide missiles to the targets. Since grazing angles of 0.1 to 1 degree are involved, multipath signal distortion occurs. The multipath signal causes antenna pattern distortion and inaccurate pointing."
"Theoretical studies at The Aerospace Corporation over the past several years, of the general RADAR resolution problem have been the stimulus for an experimental program aimed at demonstrating the practicability of utilizing the high inherent resolution potential of millimeter-wavelength RADAR. In brief, the large bandwidth available at 94 GHz, for example, (several thousand MHz) should enable a RADAR to obtain a \"range profile\" of a satellite that shows more details than range profiles at lower frequencies. The high Doppler sensitivity at 94 GHz should permit a precise measurement of the spin rate for spinning satellites; the high carrier frequency offers the possibility of using synthetic aperture processing to \"compress\" the antenna beam along the track, so that two-dimensional resolution in range and along the track is obtained for better determination of satellite properties."
"Several system applications are being developed at millimeter wavelengths, including: 1. Radiometric ship detection and missile guidance against ship targets. 2. Antenna systems for intersatellite relays. 3. RADAR area correlator guidance and clutter suppression techniques. 4. Wideband propagation/communication experiments between a satellite and ground stations. The first two of these examples will be discussed in detail, while the latter two will only be briefly mentioned."
"In the field of scanning RADAR the need for high resolution is becoming increasingly important. Several types of monopulse techniques have been tried in order to improve angular resolution but results have been marginal. Higher angular resolution than that produced by the beam size of the system cannot be attained by monopulse methods. The most simple and perhaps the most effective method that can be used to achieve high resolution is through the use of a narrow antenna beam. The antenna beam can be made more narrow by either increasing the antenna size or increasing the RADAR frequency. In airborne applications the antenna size has reached a practical limit so, in order to improve the resolution, it becomes necessary to increase the RADAR frequency. For this reason a continuing investigation of the higher RADAR frequencies is being conducted at the Naval Air Development Center."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the applicaiton for IEEE G-MTT membership."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"The panel on Microwave Energy Applications is composed of representatives from five areas of applications of microwave power, Topics to be discussed will be presented from a tutorial point of view, and will include industrial applications, power transmission, solid-state techniques for generation of microwave power, high energy applications (ING proton accelerators, plasma generators, etc.), and biological effects related to microwave energy, Each panel member will give a short formal presentation covering his area of interest, after which the session will be open for general discussion with audience participation."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A record of the panel discussion was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings. The panel on Microwave Energy Applications is composed of representatives from five areas of applications of microwave power, Topics to be discussed will be presented from a tutorial point of view, and will include industrial applications, power transmission, solid-state techniques for generation of microwave power, high energy applications (ING proton accelerators, plasma generators, etc.), and biological effects related to microwave energy, Each panel member will give a short formal presentation covering his area of interest, after which the session will be open for general discussion with audience participation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The scattering matrix for an ideal (2/sup n/+1) port combiner, formed by interconnecting (2/sup n/-1) magic-tee hybrids, is developed. This matrix is then used to describe a coherent power-summing technique for 2/sup n/ injection-locked oscillators for n=3. The losses that arise from combining oscillators with different injection-locking characteristics are evaluated by two methods: 1) expressions for the output power and loss of the combiner as functions of the input signals are obtained with amplitude and phase as parameters; 2) a semigraphical solution for the combined output and loss is obtained by means of a flow chart and computer-generated gain, loss, and phase characteristics of a single-hybrid junction. The amplitude and phase balance required between individual oscillators for efficient power addition is described, giving the engineer a quantitative measure of the multiple-oscillator design requirements."
"This work is a theoretical study of waves in a circular-cylindrical radially inhomogeneous guiding medium. A vector theory based upon Maxwell's equatious is used to derive linear homogeneous fourth-order equations satisfied by the longitudinal electric and magnetic field components for a medium in which the permittivity decreases monotonically from the propagation axis. The percentage change of permittivity from the guide axis to some radius a is assumed small. For modes with propagation constants approximately equal to the wave number at guide center, all field components are shown to satisfy second-order differential equations. In particular, all transverse field components are proportional to a single scalar function. In a Iossless system with no containing boundary, a new class of polynomial-Gaussian solutions describes the longitudinal fields for the case of a quadratically decreasing permittivity, while the transverse fields are Gaussian-Laguerre. Mode patterns, propagation constants, and orthogonality relations are given. It is shown analytically that the modes tend to TE or TM as the mode order increases. Moreover, the transverse fields become dominant at large wave numbers, and the fields become tightly bound to the guide axis as the wave number and/or inhomogeneity increases. Studies of more general permittivity variations and wall effects will be reported shortly."
"This paper describes propagation characteristics of periodic leaky waveguides for helix waveguides and solid metal waveguides carrying a TE/sup cir//sub 01/ mode based primarily on experimental studies. For low-loss leaky waveguides, this type has not been considered feasible, because of the critical problem encountered in mode conversion-reconversion at the circular apertures. Additional loss due to the periodic array of the circular apertures and TE/sup cir//sub 01/ loss/frequency characteristics of the periodic leaky waveguide using helix waveguides and solid metal waveguides are measured by the shuffle-pulse method in the X-band. The periodic leaky waveguides using solid metal waveguides are seen to be acceptable for practical use as a low-loss leaky waveguide system, according to these measurements."
"A finite difference potential solution to a TEM mode transmission line cross section may be used to define a continuous potential function, leading to an upper bound for the capacitance. The accuracy of the capacitance calculation is shown to depend on the potential function fitted. A method is developed for interpolating a suitable potential function; in the cases considered, the use of this potential function gave capacitance solutions with an error approximately one-fifth that obtained using the usual methods."
"A general theory of transmission line all-pass equalizers operating in either TEM, TE, or TM modes is presented. Application of the theory to practical problems is straightforward, and circuit realizations of the equalizers are often simply related to easily computed design curves. Although the theory, strictly speaking, is for commensurate transmission line networks, it is not essential that the network being equalized, or in narrow-band cases the equalizer itself, be of commensurate length lines. Design formulas for narrow-band equalizers of up to two cavities are presented, and a method for extending the design to a greater number of cavities is described. The effect of equalizer dissipation loss is investigated and briefly described. Two example designs are presented."
"The bandwidth characteristics of two-idler parametric amplifiers are investigated, and an approximate equivalent circuit derived. It is shown that under certain conditions the input impedance Zin is nearly constant and independent of pump amplitude over a relatively wide bandwidth. Computer analysis of particular one- and two-idler amplifiers has yielded comparable bandwidths and noise figures for a single-idler amplifier with a compensating resonator at its input, and a twoidler amplifier. Measured results are given for an experimental two-idler amplifier."
"A Chebyshev-like polynomial of even order is described which, when used in low-pass filter design of even order, allows for the output to input resistance ratio of the filters to be specified independently of the passband ripple level. This is an improvement on the conventional theory, which requires that the resistance ratio be a junction of the passband ripple level. In particular, the important case of equally terminated lumped and distributed lowpass filters is considered in detail, and tables of element values are given for a large number of practical design specifications."
"In a recent paper by R. Levy and L.F. Lind [\"Synthesis of synunetrical branch-guide directional couplers,\" ibid., vol. MTT-16, pp. 80-89, February 1968] an exact synthesis procedure for the symmetrical branch-guide directional coupler was described. In this design it was assumed that all port terminating resistances were equal. An extension to this work has been found which allows one pair of terminating resistances to have a different value from the other pair. The resulting device is therefore both a branch-guide directional coupler and impedance transformer. This combination of properties may find application in antenna design work and other fields."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A study has been made of the propagation of the first-order modes in a structure obtained by placing a thin magnetized ferrite slab against a broad wall of a rectangular waveguide. The numerical solution of the characteristic equation shows that, with a suitable choice of parameters, it is possible to realize an electrically tunable band-stop filter. An experimental investigation carried out on a component constructed in this way has given results in full agreement with the theoretical analysis and has allowed an estimate to be made of the influence of the parameters on the selectivity characteristics and tunability of the filter."
"The propagation characteristics of leaky waves in a helix waveguide covered with a slitted cylinder are presented by a method of transverse network representation. The main interest is in helix waveguides with small pitch angles, characterized by a hybrid mode consisting of TE/sub 01/, and a small amount of TM/sub 01/ modes. The leaky wave discussed in this paper may then be regarded as a perturbation of the TM/sub 01/ wave by the slitted cylinder outside the helix. The radiation, metal, and dielectric losses are calculated numerically at a frequency of 50 GHz. The relation between the radiation loss and aperture angle of slit is very different from that of an ordinary leaky waveguide composed of a slitted cylinder without helix, especially when the distance between the helix and shield cylinder is about a quarter of the radial wavelength. The metal and dielectric losses are the same order as radiation loss, however the dielectric loss decreases as the power factor /spl epsiv/\"/ /spl epsiv/' increases. The measured total attenuation constant averages about 5 dB/km, almost twice the theoretical value."
"Waveguide discontinuities are analyzed conventionally by techniques utilizing the induced field in the vicinity of the discontinuity for calculation of the distant reflected and transmitted field in the various modes. Evaluation of the induced field constitutes the major difficulty in the problem. By an alternative and novel approach explored in this paper, scattering by a discontinuity in a waveguide is deduced from a knowledge of its far zone (asymptotic) scattering properties in free space. In contrast to \"small obstacle\" techniques wherein similar concepts are utilized for isolated scatterers whose size is small compared to the free-space wavelength, the present procedure accommodates also large discontinuities such as strips, apertures, bifurcations, changes in cross section, etc. The description of various scattering processes is carried out naturally in terms of ray optics which provides at each stage of the calculation an interpretation of the associated physical mechanism. The procedure is illustrated for apertures, strips, and bifurcations in a parallel plane waveguide for which comparisons with exact solutions can be made. It is found that while the ray-optical technique is best suited to the high-frequency (multimode) regime far from modal cutoffs, it is capable of providing remarkable accuracy even in the range of propagation of only the dominant mode."
"This calculation evaluates the discontinuity capacitance of a coaxial line terminated in a circular waveguide using the Rayleigh-Ritz variational technique. A 50-ohm 3/4-inch coaxial line termination with solid center conductor was fabricated with center and outer conductor dimensions of 0.32568/spl plusmn/ 0.00002 and 0.74995/spl plusmn/ 0.00002 inches, respectively. The measured value of capacitance of this termination at 1000 Hz was 2.164 x 10/sup -13/ farads as compared with the calculated value of 2.177093 x 10/sup -13/ farads. Calculated values of capacitance for other line sizes were also compared with measured values and in each case the calculated value agreed with the measured value to within the experimental error of the measured value."
"The dispersion relation for axially symmetric modes propagating on a surface waveguide composed of a central conductor surrounded by an axially magnetized ferrite tube has been obtained. Tuning curves for an open boundary post resonator are calculated and compared with experimental results for an X-band tunable filter. The modes of circulation of a three-port waveguide circulator utilizing this geometry have also been studied and experimentally verified."
"The characteristics of TEM modes propagating along a conical transmission line consisting of equiangular strips and exhibiting N-fold symmetry are investigated. Impedance eigenvalues for the eigenmodes of such structures are evaluated using no integral equation approach. Two techniques of calculating the eigenvalues are investigated and compared for this class of transmission line. The results are also compared to exact results available for self-complementary structures. Transverse field distributions along the conical line are also presented for the case N=6."
"An application of the parametron preamplifier (the phasecoherent degenerate parametric amplifier) to the X-band superheterodyne ESR (electron spin resonance) spectrometer to improve its sensitivity is described. The sensitivity and obtainable signal-to-noise ratio of the parametron ESR spectrometer are analyzed theoretically and the results confirmed experimentally. The improvement at the low bridge input power level up to 0.2 mW was about 6 dB which corresponds to the improvement of noise figure obtainable because of the inherent low-noise characteristics of the parametron amplifier. However, the improvement at power level of 20 mW amounted to 20 dB which is ascribed to the phase-sensitive amplification characteristics of the parametron preamplifier that reject the out-of-phase FM noise."
"Experimental tests performed on an X-band open resonator terminated by flat mirrors with step rims are described. The presence of the rim along the edges of the plane mirrors of a Fabry-Perot reduces the diffraction losses but does not greatly affect the mode volume. This may Joe advantageous especially in laser techniques."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Characteristics of wave propagation in a guide filled with uniaxial anisotropic warm plasma are investigated. Basic equations of the plasma are derived. The validity of the plasma model and its physical significance are discussed. It has been found that TE modes are not affected by the presence of plasma. However, TM modes do have significant changes. Under the condition specified, each TM mode splits into two submodes. One has a low-frequency cutoff and the other propagates for all frequencies. The nature of power transfer in these modes is also investigated. A comparison of the effects as well as the physical significance of the changes due to cold and warm uniaxial plasma models are discussed."
"Theory is presented which 1) derives the circuit impedance requirements to match the nonlinearity of the varactor reactance-versus-voltage curve to the tangent /spl theta/ curve to obtain 180/spl deg/ linear phase modulation from one diode; 2) gives the value and position of a resistor to make insertion loss invariant with phase; and 3) derives the circuit requirements for combining two 180/spl deg/ diode phase moduIators in an admittance adding network to obtain 360/spl deg/ phase modulation. Experiments are disclosed rising series tuning at 1 GHz providing 360/spl deg/ phase modulation within /spl plusmn/ 3.0 percent of linearity, and using shunt tuning at 5 GHz providing 360/spl deg/ phase modulation within /spl plusmn/ 3.3 percent of linearity. A discussion is given of the application of the modulators to the serrodyne function."
"An exact solution of the discontinuity problem of a circular cylindrical post of arbitrary complex permittivity centered in a rectangular waveguide with the axis parallel to the electric field vector of the dominant mode has been set up and numerical results based directly on this solution have been found rising an electronic computer. The method used divides the waveguide up into three different regions by introducing two imaginary plane walls perpendicular to the waveguide walls. In the center region, which contains the cylindrical rod, the electromagnetic field is expanded in cylindrical waves and in the outer regions the field is expanded in waveguide modes. By setting up the boundary conditions at all discontinuity surfaces and performing numerical matching of the fields at the two imaginary walls, a system of linear equatious determining the coefficients of reflection, transmission, and absorption of the field due to the cylindrical rod is found. The structure which is of most interest in the case of a plasma column is a coaxial structure consisting of an inner dielectric cylinder with complex permittivity (the plasma) surrounded by a dielectric sleeve with real, positive permittivity (the glass tube). The theory is therefore developed to apply generally for such structures. From the numerical results, curves have been obtained showing the relationship between the coefficients of reflection and transmission and the (complex) permittivity of the rod material. Such curves maybe used for deducing the microwave properties of a cylindrical rod from measurements of the reflection and transmission coefficient of the rod."
"The scattering of a time-harmonic, linearly polarized plane electromagnetic wave by a cylinder uniformly moving along its axis is discussed. The formalism is relativistically exact, and explicit forms are provided for first-order velocity effects. Consideration is given to both a cylinder moving in free space, using the procedure suggested by Einstein, and two refractive media; it is veritied that the first case is a special case of the second one. Thin scatterers are considered and it is shown that no first-order velocity effects are present. For a moving medium, having in its rest frame the same constitutive parameters as the surrounding medium, it is shown that the velocity-independent part vanishes, but scattered fields of the first order in the velocity are still present. Moreover, these waves appear with the opposite polarization (compared to the incident wave)."
"The dispersion characteristics of an open interdigital-line structure were obtained by treating the structure as a radiator. Good agreement between the theoretical solution and the experimental measurements was observed."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The design and synthesis of various types of microwave elliptic function filters has been accomplished by a number of authors. However, one problem in this field which remains is the realization of compact narrow-band bandpass elliptic function filters. In this paper, a procedure is presented which enables this class of filters to be constricted in a compact digital form. Since the physical realization is in the form of an n-wire line, one-quarter of a wavelength Iong at the center frequency of the passband, where the impedance levels are stepped along the center of the coupled lines, the filter has been termed the stepped digital elliptic filter. The absence of awkward interconnections in the filter due to the stepped digital structure inherently implies that reasonable insertion loss characteristics may be achieved in the X-band region and above, and also simplifies the mechanical construction. It is shown that the resonant elements in the filter, due to the design procedure adopted, are relatively insensitive to the absolute bandwidth of the filter, and consequently fractional bandwidths of approximately 30 percent and below may be readily achieved while the normalized impedance values of the elements in the network remain of the order of unity. This latter result is similar to that obtainable from conventional interdigital filters but in the case of narrow bandwidths the stepped digital filter is considerably smaller in physical size. A systematic procedure is also formulated for the inclusion of the parasitic lumped end effect capacitances into the overall design procedure in order to maintain the equiripple passband and stopband responses. Experimental results are presented for a five-element, 11 percent bandwidth filter and are shown to be in good agreement with theoretical predictions."
"A simple swept-frequency reflectometer is described that is capable of measuring reflection coefficients as low as 0.001 and is particularly suitable for precise impedance matching. With the exception of a length of accurate plain waveguide, used as a standard, the instrument contains no critical components and requires no tuning adjustments. The reflection coefficient is displayed on an oscilloscope or X-Y recorder on an almost linear scale that is only slightly affected by departures from square-law detection."
"This paper is concerned with the design procedure and synthesis of a class of microwave bandpass linear phase filters which simultaneously exhibit a maximally flat amplitude and delay response about band center. In the first part of the paper a systematic procedure is developed for the construction of a nonminimum phase transfer function which exhibits a maximally flat delay and maximally flat amplitude characteristic. In the second part, a synthesis procedure is presented for the realization of the general nth-ordered transfer function by a generalized interdigital network. To simplify the design and construction of this filter, typical characteristics for filters of degree n = 3,4,5,6,7 are graphically presented together with a tabular representation of the polynomials which are required to design the filter. Finally, the results of an experimental filter of degree 3 are incorporated to illustrate that this class of nonminimum phase filters may readily be constructed in practice."
"A very general computer program for determining sets of propagating modes and cutoff frequencies of arbitrarily shaped waveguides is described. The program uses a new method of analysis based on approximate extremization of a functional whose Euler equation is the scalar Helmholtz equation, subject to homogeneous boundary conditions. Subdividing the guide cross section into triangular regions and assuming the solution to be representable by a polynomial in each region, the variational problem is approximated by a matrix eigenvalue problem, which is solved by Householder tridiagonalization and Sturm sequences. For reasonably simple convex polygonal guide shapes, the dominant eigenfrequencies are obtained to 5-6 significant figures; for nonconvex or complicated shapes, the accuracy may fall to 3 significant figures. Use of the program is illustrated by calculating the propagating modes of a class of degenerate mode guides of current interest, for which experimental data are available. Numerical studies of convergence rate and discretization error are also described. It is believed that the new program produces waveguide analyses of higher accuracy than any general program previously available."
"The fields in waveguide bends with arbitrary curvature and cross section are expressed in terms of \"local\" annular modes. The coupling between the local mode amplitudes is derived by evaluating the differential scattering coefficients between two adjacent infinitesimal annular waveguides. Comparison of these solutions with an earlier analysis of the problem shows that the coupling terms for the local annular modes are smaller for gradually curved bends since they are proportional to the derivative of the curvature. Furthermore, the significant scattered annular modes are bunched more tightly about the incident mode. The coupled differentiaI equations for the annular mode amplitudes may therefore be solved by considering relatively fewer scattered modes."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide an accurate theoretical picture of three classes of tapered-line couplers. The coupler taper is approximated with a cascade of short equal-length coupled line segments whose coupling values match those of the taper at one end of each segment. Exact analysis of the even-mode transmission-line analogy is then performed by evaluating the ABCD matrix of the cascade as a function of frequency with the aid of a digital computer. The computed response converges to that of the smooth tapered coupler as the number of line segments increases, total length being held constant. An exact asymptotic high-frequency model for asymmetric couplers is presented which provides improved prediction of coupler performance, as verified by computer analysis. The associated design procedures are given explicitly. The insertion phase dispersion of the 90/spl deg/ and /spl Sigma/ - /spl Delta/ magic tee devices is treated. Comparisons with the insertion phase dispersion of various stepped coupling 90/spl deg/ designs are provided."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In this paper a rigorous but relatively straightforward procedure is presented for obtaining equivalent circuits of general parallel coupled TEM transmission lines that includes coupling to adjacent as well as nonadjacent lines. The procedure is illustrated in detail by several examples. It provides a means of analyzing these structures without the need of neglecting coupling between any nonadjacent lines and is therefore particularly helpful in the case where the nonadjacent couplings become significant. In fact, for obtaining optimum device performance from a given number of lines, it may be desirable to include the nonadjacent couplings. As an illustration of its usefulness in an exact analysis, the proposed method is applied to the analysis of interdigital filters. It is demonstrated that certain properties can be shown to exist when nonadjacent couplings are included."
"In this paper asymptotic methods are employed to solve for the vector fields and propagation constants of modes propagating axially in a circular-cylindrical guiding system in which the dielectric constant decreases gradually and monotonically, but otherwise arbitrarily, from a maximum at the axis."
"In this paper the current distribution is calculated for a microstrip line in the presence of a neighboring strip. The electric field is calculated and the characteristic impedance of the slotted microstrip line is determined. A graph of characteristic impedance is given for odd and even excitations. The calculations are carried out by setting up a singular integral equation which is solved using a finite integral transform. This method has the advantage that the calculations can be generalized in a straightforward manner for the multislotted line."
"Approximations for the characteristic impedance of a special two conductor stripline and for the general function K/K' are derived by a transformation method recently described in the literature; the first, second, and third approximations having a greatest relative error of the order of 10/sup -3/, 10/sup -6/, and 10/sup -12/, respectively. They can be introduced into an algorithm which is based on elementary conformal mappings, and thus further approximations with rapidly vanishing errors can be derived. The results agree with those for the function K/K' obtained by elliptic integral theory. Obviously no such theory is needed to calculate characteristic impedances or the function K/K' with arbitrary accuracy. The advantages of the new method are illustrated for shielded coupled-strip transmission lines, for which an extended diagram with extreme parameter values has been worked out."
"The eigenvalue equation describing the mode coupling between two Goubau surface wave lines is derived utilizing the point matching method for solutions of boundary value problems. Excellent agreement is obtained between theoretical and experimental results. A method for obtaining the hybrid wavenumbers of coupled surface wave lines is proposed for a finite set of TE and TM modes."
"A dielectric shield is proposed to protect a G-line from environmental conditions, such as ice, without altering the basic characteristics of the surface wave. A solution is obtained for a multilayered cylindrical surface waveguide and is used to predict the guide wavelength and attenuation rate of a dielectric-shielded G-line and the effect of a layer of ice, which can be very detrimental to the performance of a G-line. A dielectric shield is shown to effectively protest the G-line without appreciably changing its transmission characteristics. Experimental confirmation of the calculations is demonstrated."
"Close agreement between experimental results and theory is reported for waveguide branch-guide couplers when proper account is taken of the T-junction discontinuities. The appropriate range of specifications for which these couplers are particularly apt is indicated."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An improved theory of the point-matching method for perfectly conducting waveguides is presented. Some simplified formulas are developed. A point-matching technique is developed for computing the Z/sub 0/ of TEM lines, and established for waveguides and transmission lines with multiple connected and multiple valued cross sections. Sample computations are presented."
"The modified residue-calculus technique, which is a generalization of the conventional function theoretic procedure for solving certain infinite sets of equations, permits solution of waveguide discontinuity problems which include dielectric, diaphragm, and step modifications of a basic discontinuity problem exactly solvable by the Wiener-Hopf techniqne. Solutions in scattering matrix form, including both propagating and nonpropagating modes, are found by a rapidly convergent and very accurate numerical procedure which eliminates many of the computational difficulties associated with integral equation or matrix equation solutions of the same problems."
"The modified residue-calculus technique (MRCT) described in a companion paper may be combined with scattering matrix, multiple-reflection techniques to provide solutions in scattering matrix form to thick-wall waveguide phased array, modulated surface, and strip grating geometries. Each of these geometries may be regarded as a periodic array of thin plates modified by dielectric fillings, waveguide steps, and terminations. Solutions to the modified geometries are found by combining the exact solution to the thin-wall array problem with approximate solutions to certain waveguide discontinuity problems found by the MRCT. In particular, a value of the dominant mode reflection coefficient versus scan angle for the thick-wall array may be found accurate to two or three significant figures without need for matrix inversion. In general, reduction of matrix size by a factor of 5 or more over conventional methods with equivalent accuracy may be realized."
"Reflection coefficients of various order diffracted waves are calculated for an echelette grating which finds important use as a component of suboptical resonators. The classical optics approach has been found to be inadequate for deriving reliable results for this configuration. Accurate solution of the boundary value problem associated with the echelette grating is derived by a new method. The results are useful for the design of suboptical resonators which use the echelette grating as a coupling mirror to achieve a single wavelength operation."
"The properties of three-port networks have been widely discussed in connection with circulator development. However, much attention has not been paid to the influence of loss on network properties. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the relations between the scattering coefficients in a lossy rotation-symmetrical three-port network. The results are presented in several curves showing the realizable combinations of scattering coefficients for different states of loss. Special consideration given to networks with circulator properties."
"The subject of this paper is microwave frequency multiplication by hot carriers in bulk semiconductors which show nonlinear current-voltage characteristics. The fifth, seventh, and ninth harmonics are measured, the fundamental frequeucy being in the X-band. Efficiencies are obtained which are higher than those obtained so far with point-contact multipliers and gas discharge tubes. In addition, higher input power can be applied, and the assembly of a hot carrier multiplier is simpler and more economical than others."
"A method for the determination of short time changes of Q factor and resonance of a cavity has been developed. The method is based on the observation of the change in reflection coefficient. As long as the cavity is coupled undercritically there always exist two frequencies at which no change of the reflection coefficient occurs. The measurement of these frequencies is sufficient for evaluating the changed values of the unloaded Q and the resonant frequency assuming no change of the external Q during perturbation. This assumption can be made in most cases of application. If there also exists a perturbation of the external Q, the value of the changed reflection coefficient must be measured at any additional freqnency preferably at the resonant frequency of the unperturbed cavity. Experimental results demonstrate the applicability of this method."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The high permittivity dielectric resonator is a low loss microwave filter element whose size is substantiality less than metal waveguide cavities. Temperature stabilizing their resonant frequency increases the applicability of such elements. A temperature compensated 3-section band-rejection filter using dielectric resonators has been fabricated and tested. The measured electrical performance was comparable to metal waveguide filters and the frequency stability for temperature variations was comparable to brass waveguide cavity filters which are not temperature compensated."
"This paper is concerned with the determination of field patterns, propagation constants, and losses for axially propagating modes guided by an enclosed circular cylindrical, radially inhomogeneous dielectric of the type discussed in Parts I and II. The homogeneous outer medium (/spl gamma/ /spl ges/ /a) is assumed to have a large relative permittivity /spl epsiv//sub 2/, and the analysis includes the perfect conductor case /spl epsiv//sub 2/ /spl rarr/ /spl infin/. The transition to trapped waves as the binding effect increases is demonstrated. Propagation constants in the case with loss are determined using a perturbation technique."
"A circuit model of the Gunn device that retains both the time dependent and nonlinear device properties is presented. The model is based on the physical properties of a high-field domain in a uniformly doped sample and represents this domain and the remainder of the device by appropriate circuit elements. A computer program has been written that allows the device to be connected to any combination of RLC elements up to and including two parallel RLC circuits in series. Computer calculations have been made with a low resistance series circuit to simulate the Gunn mode of operation. The variation of Gunn frequency with bias voltage has been calculated and is in qualitative agreement with experiments. An inductance of 1 nH in series with 1 ohm is found to significantly alter results in comparison with the pure resistive case. The effect of this series inductance has also been observed experimentally as a lack of harmonics in resistive device mounts with stray inductance. Results obtained with a parallel RLC circuit point out the importance of circuit voltage control on the domain behavior. The LSA diode is treated as a bulk conductance following the drift velocity-electric field curve for GaAs. The bulk velocity and differential mobility are approximated by polynomials of electric field from which the device equivalent circuit is obtained. A physical insight into the operation of the LSA device is gained through a plot of time-integrated differential mobility with time. It is shown that an RF load for which this integral does not change appreciably over an RF period results in maximum efficiency. Results of efficiency and negative resistance of the device obtained for a bias field of 10 kV/cm are presented and are in good agreement with calculations of other workers."
"The first-order (in v/c) vector wave equation for electromagnetic waves in moving media is solved for radially moving media. Two modes of flow are considered, the two-dimensional case of media flowing radially, symmetrically with respect to the z axis, and the three-dimensional case where the flow is symmetrical with respect to the origin. It is shown that the solution differs from the case of media at rest by a scalar multiplicative factor, involving the radius and the velocity. Propagation of a plane wave is discussed, and the local behavior is interpreted in terms of a ray propagating in the moving medium. It is shown that for an outgoing flow, the ray moves away from the origin in the finite domain. At large distances the ray enters and emerges from the medium in the same direction. Scattering by a cylinder and by a sphere, symmetrical with respect to the two-, and three-dimensional flow, respectively, are discussed. It is shown that the scattering amplitude is velocity-independent. This result is contrasted with former cases of scattering in moving media."
"An exact method, involving the line vector z, is developed for calculating the characteristic impedances of stepped impedance transformers having maximally-flat and Chebyshev characteristics. It is also shown that this leads to considerable economy of effort compared with earlier methods."
"From time domain considerations, a method is presented to calculate the energy stored in certain resonant TEM-mode microwave networks. The time average of the stored energy is then used to define an instantaneous signal bandwidth parameter through the definition of a Q or quality factor. It is demonstrated by experiment that the Q factor is inversely proportional to the rise time of the envelope of the step-modulated response of the network at resonance."
"A microwave bandpass filter is described. Near the passband this filter has the electrical characteristics of an interdigftat filter but requires no short circuits. The filter is compact and well suited for stripline construction."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"As Guest Editor of this computer-oriented special issue of the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, I've had a wide view of computer-oriented microwave engineering of 1968-69. In a very general way, here's how it looks to me now. Within microwaves, electromagnetic field analysts seem to be the group most fully converted to the computer. They have been reevaluating classical techniques and developing new techniques to solve boundary value problems by numerical methods. Problems which formerly could be solved only conceptually, or by excessive commitment of hand calculation, are now done in a few minutes or even seconds of machine time."
"This paper reviews some of the more useful, current and newly developing methods for the solution of electromagnetic fields. It begins with an introduction to numerical methods in general, including specific references to the mathematical tools required for field analysis, e.g., solution of systems of simultaneous linear equations by direct and iterative means, the matrix eigenvalue problem, finite difference differentiation and integration, error estimates, and common types of boundary conditions. This is followed by a description of finite difference solution of boundary and initial value problems. The paper reviews the mathematical principles behind variational methods, from the Hilbert space point of view, for both eigenvalue and deterministic problems. The significance of natural boundary conditions is pointed out. The Rayleigh-Ritz approach for determining the minimizing sequence is explained, followed by a brief description of the finite element method. The paper concludes with an introduction to the techniques and importance of hybrid computation."
"Computer programs have been developed to investigate the construction of polynomial approximations to H-modes in empty guide of arbitrary shape. Mathematically this corresponds to the approximate solution of the Helmholtz equation with homogeneous Neumann boundary conditions. The method used is the well-known Rayleigh-Ritz. Both polynomial and piecewise polynomial function spaces have been investigated for several types of waveguide cross section. Particularly good results have been obtained for convexguides.A comprehensive set of H-mode contour plots are presented for four well-known guide sections."
"The use of functional (as opposed to numerical) approximations in solving electromagnetic boundary value problems is presented. Galerkin's method is modified to simplify the choice of trial functions by permitting use of trial functions which do not satisfy certain boundary conditions. A test problem, the dielectric loaded rectangular waveguide, is worked using both the modified and unmodified Galerkin's method with identical results. This method is then applied to the arbitrary waveguide. The cutoff frequencies and computer drawn contour plots are presented for circular, rectangular, triangular and star-shaped waveguides."
"A method has been developed to improve the use of the RayIeigh-Ritz procedure. A criterion is established, which is a measure of the cumulative improvement due to the addition of more and more terms in the series expansion. Without calculating the exact roots of determinantal equations, the convergence is accelerated by skipping unnecessary intermediate steps. The computation time is drastically reduced because the final result is obtained after only a few (not more than 5 to 7) values of determinants of increasing order. Inhomogeneneously loaded waveguides are chosen as an application because the exact solution is available to check the validity of the method. The results obtained with the method described in this paper are compared with other approximate procedures. The comparison shows a definite advantage for the suggested technique."
"Iterative solutions to the finite difference equations derived from the scalar Helmholtz equation are found to diverge for domains greater than a certain size. A transform method is presented which produces convergence in larger domains. The method is illustrated by solutions for one- and two-dimensional cases involving lossy dielectric media."
"Using finite difference methods this paper shows how solutions may be obtained with the aid of a digital machine to a wide range of microwave circuit problems. These problems include the parameters of TEM-mode transrnission lines, the equivalent circuits of obstacles in these lines, the cutoff frequencies of the fundamental mode in a waveguide of very general cross section, and the equivalent circuits of obstacles in rectangular waveguide. Methods for deriving the appropriate finite difference equations are presented and optimum methods for their solution set out; singularities are also included in the treatment. The paper ends with a resume of some typical results to problems of practical interest which have been obtained by these methods."
"A computer-aided finite-difference method is described which can be used to calculate accurately TEM mode impedances of a uniform pair of offset parallel-coupled conductors of arbitrary cross section. The calculated impedance is the average of the lower and upper bounds computed on the mode impedance. For a given computing time, the average impedance is usually found to be more accurate than the one obtainable with either bound alone. The use of a graded mesh is found to provide a smaller separation between the bounds, and hence a smaller maximum error in the average impedance value, in a time much shorter than with the uniform mesh."
"Discontinuities in coaxial lines may in general be represented in equivalent networks by lumped capacitances. The calculation of discontinuity capacitance is possible by means of mode-matching techniques for very simple discontinuities; for more complex cases, direct numerical methods are preferable. A new numerical technique is presented for solving the field problem in a region bounded on two sides by infinitely extending coaxial lines. The approach used is to define operators by means of which the potentials at a given cross-sectional plane of the coaxial line are related to potentials at another plane. The problem of a discontinuity region between two infinitely long lines is thereby converted into a finite problem with prescribed boundary operators in place of boundary values. Standard methods may be used to solve the problem in a finite region. Subsequent reformulation of the discontinuity capacitance in terms of stored energy permits calculation of this capacitance from the potential values in only a minimal region. The resulting computer programs are at least an order of magnitude faster than previously published ones."
"The DIPNETcomputer program makes practical the simple and rapid solution of elaborate microwave networks on a time-sharing computer. Given a file of input data describing a DIstributed Parameter NET-work of electrical sections, the program finds the complex voltage and current phasors along the network over a prescribed range of frequencies. Sections may consist of a variety of transmission lines, lumped constants, sources, and active devices. Network configurations may include chains, side stubs, and two-path sections. The network size is practically unlimited, and may easily comprise hundreds of sections. Output data at selected points along the network may include phasors, their absolute magnitude and phase shift, and power flow. Normalization to designated phasors is provided for by the program. The output data may also include input resistance, reactance, impedance, and the admittance counterparts. Repeated sequences may be handled automatically. Network parameters may also be modified automatically, both those which depend on frequency and frequency-independent parameters."
"This paper describes microwave circuit analysis programs techniques for general purpose which perform frequency domain analyses. Differing techniques used in two programs are described. The first uses transfer matrix analysis and is limited to networks having tree structured topologies and two-port devices such as transmission lines, stubs and lumped elements. It runs on a time-shared computer and is used for interactive design. The second program can analyze any linear network including those with multiport elements such as coupled transmission lines. This uses a nodal representation for the circuit and relies on inverting an admittance matrix to perform the analysis. In the first program the user describes his circuit in terms of topology as well as circuit elements. By this technique, a considerable reduction in computer size needed to run this program is effected. A 60 element circuit can be run on a commercial time-sharing service with less than 6K words of available core. The second program requires a large computer; for example, 32K words or core storage are required to analyze a 50 node circuit."
"Methods for the automatic analysis and design of microwave circuits using a digital computer in batch mode are given. The methods are capable of handling microwave components modeled by ordinary R, L, C, M, CS elements pins transmission lines and multiterminal black-boxes whose characteristics have been determined theoretically or experimentally. The analysis-optimization program, IMPROVE (Integrated and Microwave Program for Optimizing Variable Elements), implementing the methods presented in this paper is described and its use illustrated with a practical design problem."
"The panel members were asked to respond to the Editor's question, given below. They were then given copies of each others comments, and asked to respond with a second-round of opinions."
"This paper surveys record automatic optimization methods which either have found or should find useful application in the optimal design of microwave networks by digital computer. Emphasis is given to formulations and methods which can be implemented in situations when the classical synthesis approach (analytic or numerical) is inappropriate. Objectives for network optimization are formulated including minimax and least pth. Detailed consideration is given to methods of dealing with parameter and response constraints by means of transformations or penalties. In particular, the formulation of problems in terms of inequality constraints and their solution by sequential unconstrained minimization is discussed. Several one-dimensional and multidimensional minimization strategies are summarized in a tutorial manner. Included are Fibonacci and Golden Section search, interpolation methods, pattern search, Rosenbrock's method, Powell's method, simplex methods, and the Newton-Raphson, Fletcher-Powell, and least squares methods. Relevant examples of interest to microwave circuit designers illustrating the application of computer-aided optimization techniques are presented. The paper also includes a classified list of references."
"A new optimization method called razor search is presented. The method, which is based on pattern search, was specifically developed for the automatic optimization by computer of networks for which the objective is to minimize the maximum deviation of some response from a desired ideal response specification. Minimax response objectives, which can lead to equal-ripple optima, will in general give rise to discontinuous partial derivatives of the objective function with respect to the network parameters. Otherwise efficient optimization methods may slow down or even fail to reach an optimum in such circumstances, particularly when the response hypersurface has a narrow curved valley along which the path of discontinuous derivatives lies. Another direct search method called ripple search is also presented. This method was developed to locate the extrema of multimodal functions of one variable in an efficient manner, and is used to determine the maximum deviation of the response from the desired response. Sufficiently detailed flow diagrams are available so that the methods can be readily programmed. The razor search strategy (with ripple search) has been successfully applied to the optimization of inhomogeneous waveguide transformers. It is illustrated in this paper by examples of cascaded commensurate and noncoummensurate transmission lines acting as impedance transformers for which the optima are known."
"The problem of designing broadband multisection stepped rectangular waveguide impedance transformers, when the input and output guides have different cutoff frequencies but propagate the same mode, is formulated in general terms for direct optimization by digital computer. The formulation is sufficiently flexible to allow nonideal junction discontinuity effects and mismatched terminations to be taken into account during optimization. Constraints placed on the width, height, or length of any section need be dictated only by considerations for dominant mode propagation and the requirement of small (but not necessarily negligible) junction discontinuities. The objective of the present formulation is a minimax equal-ripple response over a predetermined frequency band satisfying the constraints selected for the particular problem. The ripple search strategy to locate the maximum reflection coefficient within the band and the razor search strategy to minimize it, as described by Bandler and Macdonald in another paper, were employed. Constrained optimum equal-ripple solutions to examples previously published by Young, Matthaei et al. and Riblet are presented. They demonstrate the considerable improvements made possible by the present formulation with regard to performance, reduction in number of sections, and physical size. The approach used in this paper should also find application in the design of broadband microwave matching or equalizing networks consisting of noncommensurate components and for which exact synthesis techniques may be unavailable."
"The use of a general purpose digital computer to convert data obtained from a network analyzer system to parameters useful to the circuit or device engineer is discussed. Measurement errors resulting from system imperfections such as coupler directivity and reflections from small discontinuities are removed by matrix manipulation while the data are being processed. The computer program was written to allow any three known impedances to be used as references. The use of arbitrary reference impedances instead of ideal short circuits, ideal open circuits, or perfectly matched terminations allows greater flexibility and in most cases permits the system to be calibrated with only three measurements at each frequency. Quantitative results are presented which show the large reduction of the error vector obtained when measurements are corrected using the method described. The corrected results are compared with the manufacturer's calibration data for some loads. All measurements are compared with measurements made on a recently marketed automatic network analyzer system. The computer program was written to allow the use of a time-sharing remote-access computer for fast turn-around time for small amounts of data. A second program was written for use with batch-process computers when large amounts of data are needed."
"A method is presented for the computer-aided design of either N-section discrete or continuously tapered symmetrical microwave couplers. The coupling distribution function k(x) is parametrized in the form k(x, p/spl ovbr/), and a special optimization process (of the generalized Remez type) is used to determine the set of parameters p/spl ovbr/ which produce an optimum power coupling response. Standard parametric forms based on an approximate Fourier analysis as well as more general spline parametric forms for k(x, p/spl ovbr/) are developed and illustrated."
"A method for realizing prescribed insertion loss characteristics is presented which is applicable to mixed distributed lumped parameter systems, as well as to transmission line structures which operate into resistive frequency variable terminations. The method utilizes scattering matrix renormalization and is implemented by a computer program. Examples given include capacitor and inductor loaded transmission line sections, as well as a TEM filter terminated in TE/sub 10/ wave impedances. The insertion loss characteristics have equal ripple passband behavior."
"A technique is developed for the synthesis and design of a distributed parameter system guiding waves from one point in space to another. The parameter distributions are assumed to be nonrestricted except for the upper and lower bounds resulting from the imposition of physical realizability. The problem is similar to the \"sensitivity\" problem encountered in the optimal control of the systems. An improved version of the first-order gradient technique is used to obtain the optimal distributions of the parameters. The first-order gradient technique is sensitive to the form of the arbitrary distributions assumed at the start of the iterations. This technique has serious convergence problems associated with it. The problem is particularly severe and is encountered in \"singular\" optimal control problems. The algorithm devised here improves the first-order gradient technique so that it becomes less sensitive to the initial assumed distributions and virtually eliminates the convergence problems generated because of the bounds on the parameter distributions. A transmission line with distributed series r, l and shunt c is a particular case of the distributed parameter system. The optimal design of a notched filter employing a thin film circuit is a successful example of the application of the improved gradient technique. These distributions have been obtained by the use of a hybrid computer."
"We have found iterative optimization techniques to be very effective in the design of broad-band low-noise integrated amplifiers. This paper presents an objective function to maximize gain while minimizing ripple and noise figure. An optimization routine using this objective function is applied to the design of an L-band amplifier. The results of several runs using different objectives applied to the same circuit topology are presented to demonstrate both the flexibility of this technique and the tradeoffs involved. One of the designs was fabricated, and the measured and predicted performance agree closely over an octave bandwidth."
"The small signal and noise equivalent circuit of a microwave transistor is evaluated using an analog simulation model. The noise figure has been determined with the same model as a function of the source admittance and the frequency. The s parameters and noise figures are compared with the results calculated on a digital computer."
"The oscillation amplitude of an octave band tunable power oscillator is calculated from the transient response of the oscillator at the frequencies of 250 MHz and 500 MHz. The oscillator circuit is at first simplified in order to save computing time. By use of a modified Ebers-Moll-transistor equivalent circuit the simplified circuit is transformed into a network of 62 branches and 26 nodes which is accessible to ECAP-computation. The calculated values coincide almost completely with the measured values."
"The folded-tape meander-line configuration that has been used in the design of compression filters for chirp RADAR applications can also be used in the design of microwave delay equalizers for communication systems. Specifically, it can be utilized in the design of delay equalizers for use in the repeaters of a long distance waveguide transmission system. In this paper, the synthesis of such L-band delay equalizers using a general purpose successive approximation computer program, SUPROX is described. In this procedure, both the locations of the resonant frequencies and the number of meander-line turns at each of these resonant frequencies are optimized to give the final design. Linear as well as certain higher order delay characteristics have been synthesized with a high degree of accuracy. Experimental results show excellent agreement with the theoretical designs."
"This section of the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques will carry descriptions of computer programs which have specific relevance to the microwave art, and are available to the microwave public. The purpose of Computer Program Descriptions is to provide a means by which microwave engineers may share useful computer programs with their colleagues. A Computer Program Description is in a separate class of technical publication, being neither a technical article nor a technical correspondence."
"The program to be described is written in FORTRAN IV and has been successfully complied and run on the GE635 computer. Typical machine running time when operating on batch processing from a previously compiled deck is less than 25 seconds."
"This subroutine processes standing wave measurements with or without line loss on a transrnission-line or waveguide load leading to its one-port characterization."
"This package calculates the input admittance versus frequency to an arbitrarily terminated inhomogeneous cascade of rectangular waveguides with or without junction discontinuity effects."
"These subroutines are used in performing Smith-chart analysis. They are also applicable to even-odd mode analysis."
"The program locates the zeros and poles of a complex valued function in a given region to a degree of accuracy specified by the user."
"The program produces complete families of mode functions for homogeneous isotropic waveguides of polygonal shape with 25 or fewer sides."
"Produces a contour map of a function defined over a rectangular grid. Linear interpolation between grid points is used to locate contours."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This paper describes a procedure for synthesizing transmission networks which are interconnections of uniform line elements. An iterative, digital computer algorithm is developed which achieves a dominant pole synthesis. The line lengths and the characteristic impedances are controlled individually, which gives design flexibility not found in synthesis procedures based on Richards' transformation. Thus, the characteristic impedances may be restricted by upper and lower bounds when there is no restriction on the line lengths. The procedure is detailed for a TEM mode structure of alternating open stubs and connecting lines. The method uses a Newton-Raphson iterative scheme to adjust the characteristic impedances and lengths of the transmission lines for a prescribed set of dominant transmission poles. By controlling the stub line lengths and the dominant pole positions, the principal transmission zeros and bounded characteristic impedances can be achieved simultaneously."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A technique is described for using transistors directly as high-Q inductors at microwave frequencies. Several experimental band-pass filters have been built and tested to verify usefulness of the inductive transistor circuit. Stable filters with unity insertion loss have been realized at UHF. Observations made during temperature cycling show that environmental stabilization can also be achieved. Analysis has been made of noise figure and nonlinear distortion, and supporting experimental data are provided. The inductive transistor circuit is expected to be practical for a variety of small-signal filtering and multiplexing applications."
"The ray-optical method presented previously for the analysis of scalarizable waveguide discontinuity problems is extended to vector scattering problems wherein an incident TE or TM mode excites both mode types. The procedure is illustrated first for reflection of an obliquely incident mode from the open end of a parallel plane waveguide, and is then applied to reflection from an open-ended circular waveguide. Formulas for modal reflection and coupling coefficients are given to various degrees of approximation, depending on whether or not multiple interaction phenomena are considered in addition to the simplest primary diffraction effects. Comparison with data computed from exact solutions for the circular waveguide problem shows that the ray-optical method is remarkably accurate not only in the strongly overmoded but also the dominant mode regimes."
"A finite-difference technique is used to evaluate the dispersion of a dielectric-loaded waveguide with a symmetrically placed microstrip line. The magnetic field is also obtained. The results presented are for the fundamental even E/sub z/-odd H/sub z/ mode."
"This paper is a discussion of IMPATT wafer small-signal characteristics in the frequency range of 2.0-8.0 GHz. These characteristics have been obtained by computer conversion of reflection phase-gain data. The data handling technique which allows establishment of the desired reference plane and the reduction of the admittance data into the desired equivalent circuit is presented. A calibration procedure using reference impedances consistent with the diode geometry is discussed. The validity of the microwave measurement technique and the data handling process is demonstrated by comparison of the values of junction capacitance determined at microwave frequencies with junction capacitance measurements at 30 MHz. Representative plots are given for wafer conductance and susceptance as a function of frequency with current density as a parameter. In addition, typical values obtained for the circuit elements are presented. These data illustrate the capability of determining package inductance, series resistance as a function of bias voltage, and, with the diode in avalanche, the parallel G, L, and C of the wafer admittance. The diode equivalent circuit was studied as a function of current density to compare results with the existing analytical small-signal theories. This procedure permits the separation of the wafer elements from the parasitic elements of the package. Data obtained from these measurements are extremely useful for ascertaining wafer design parameters and assisting in circuit design."
"It is widely recognized that continuously tapered strip-line components afford certain important advantages over their discrete counterparts in practical applications. (The question of coupler directivity, for instance, must come under close scrutiny as requirements become more severe in terms of frequency and bandwidth.) It is the purpose of this paper to set forth principles by which such components may be realized as a consequence of design techniques tailored to consistency with a given set of operational requirements applicable at once to an aggregate of different microwave strip-line components. In general, some or all of the components in such a group will differ in their nominal response characteristics. Derived through judicious application of constraints in an optimization procedure, the method obviates the need for intracircuit transformers or connectors transmission line cross section geometry compromises, component overdesign, etc., while at the same time providing mutual component compatibility and preservation of the quality of quasi-TEM microwave signal processing for a given specified bandwidth. By way of example, compatible multioctave designs have been established for components having nominal, equal-ripple responses differing by 1.7 dB. Corresponding conventional designs would have required impedance ratios of as much as 3.68:1 for a dielectric spacing such that s/b=1/9. Of particular concern are couplers with symmetric and nonsymmetric local coupling coefficient distributions and dispersive all-pass phase shift network elements. The general nonsymmetric coupler is realized without abrupt discontinuities at either end and with a constant specified unbalance phase (0</spl Phi//sub u/ <90) over the passband. Typical examples of experimental results are given."
"A 3 dB directional coupler which utilizes nonhomogeneous dielectric media to produce different phase velocities for the even and odd modes of propagation is described. The two output ports are conductively connected to each other as are the input and null ports with dc isolation between the input and both output ports. Well known thin-film techniques can be used to realize the coupler. General coupler equations and design parameters are given along with computer solutions and experimental verification. A minimum return loss of 22 dB was experimentally achieved over a 20 percent bandwidth and 27 dB minimum return loss with equal isolation over the same bandwidth is predicted with the application of simple compensation techniques. It is shown that the coupler maybe used to effect an impedance transformation between the input and output ports; however, the isolation is degraded."
"Use of transmitting-receiving (TR) ferrite switches in place of gas-discharge devices improves the noise figure, life, and reliability of RADAR receivers. This paper describes a TR ferrite switch that employs 180/spl deg/ differential-phase-shift toroids to provide essentially constant isolation and insertion loss over a wide temperature range, independence of isolation with respect to RF power, and full receiver protection in case of driver failure. The ferrite switch is functionally a transfer device that is reciprocal in terms of transmission-coefficient amplitudes but nonreciprocal with respect to transmission phases. An experimental C-band 180/spl deg/ ferrite switch has provided isolation ranging from 38 to 45 dB and an insertion loss of 0.4 dB across a -40/spl deg/C to +75/spl deg/C range and a peak power-handling capacity of 130 kW measured at 0.001 duty. The switching energy, not including driver losses, is approximately 150 /spl mu/J. The preceding values of isolation and insertion loss compare with 36 and 0.8 to 1.1 dB, respectively, across the above temperature range, for the combination of fixed circulator, limiter, and one switchable circulator."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A numerical method for computing the capacitances of n conductors located inside a grounded rectangle is presented. The method is based on an integral equation for the charge densities on the conductors with a Green's function as kernel. The integral equation is solved numerically by replacing the integral with a finite sum, using a Gaussian quadrature formula. The feasibility of the method depends on each conductor having a simple analytical description (circle, ellipsoid, straight line, etc.). As an illustration, graphs are shown giving the dimensions of an offset pair of zero-thickness strips versus coupling coefficient for a 50-ohm transmission line for various sizes of the grounded rectangle."
"The transmission-line equations describing propagation along coupled transmission lines are cast in coupled-mode form so that the roles of the different coupling coefficients and the impedance variation are more directly observable. Restrictions on the various parameters for obtaining directional coupling with nonuniform lines are then discussed and exact solutions for the coupling response of two nonuniform coupled lines with particular variations of the coupling coefficients are presented. The results obtained from the exact closed-form solutions should aid in the design of tapered couplers."
"In this paper, two-port networks composed of two identical, coupled transmission lines embedded in an inhomogeneous dielectric (e.g., suspended substrate, microstrip) are investigated. The ABCD parameters of circuit configurations, considered by Jones and Bolljahn, are obtained for the case of inhomogeneous dielectilc. Equivalent circuits of these networks are also given. It is shown that the characteristics of such circuits differ markedly from those embedded in a homogeneous medium. In addition, experimental results are presented for three types of circuits which have been constructed and tested. There is excellent agreement between the experimental results and those predicted theoretically on the basis of the equivalent circuits."
"A representation of the Green's function for a line current in a rectangular waveguide is given in terms of a rapidly converging series. One can obtain numerical results for a wide class of practical problems by combining this representation with the \"method of moments.\" The technique is discussed in general and applied to the problem of computing the reflection coefficients of circular posts in waveguides. Post diameters from 0.14 to 0.97 times the guide width are considered and theoretical results are found to be in good agreement with experimental studies."
"The use of dielectric resonators at microwave frequencies usually requires a shield to prevent loss of energy by radiation, and a coupling network. The efficiency of a given circuit depends on the filling factor, which expresses the circuit ability to store most of the input energy in the resonator, and little in the coupling network and surrounding space. The resonator is sometimes excited by means of a coupling loop inside the shield, or with a propagating waveguide. In any case, some energy is stored outside the dielectric material. A calculation is presented for the internal and external stored energies, for the case of a rectangular dielectric resonator in a rectangular waveguide. Verification was performed by measuring the insertion loss of an acoustic delay line, which illustrates an interesting application of dielectric resonators."
"Slot line consists of a narrow gap in a conductive coating on one side of a dielectric substrate, the other side of the substrate being bare. If the substrate's permittivity is sufficiently high, such as /spl epsiv//sub r/ = 10 to 30, the slot-mode wavelength will be much smaller than free-space wavelength, and the fields will be closely confined near the slot. Possible applications of slot line to filters, couplers, ferrite devices, and circuits containing semiconductor elements are discussed. Slot line can be used either alone or with microstrip line on the opposite side of the substrate. A \"second-order\" analysis yields formulas for slot-line wavelength, phase velocity, group velocity, characteristic impedance, and effect of adjacent electric and magnetic walls."
"This paper describes a mathematical analysis for determining the microwave current distribution in a barretter in a rectangular waveguide. This distribution, when used with another analysis which calculates substitution error for any given current distribution, provides a missing step necessary for the calibration of microwave and millimeter-wave barretters for absolute power measurements."
"It is shown that where the equation for a waveguide junction field can be expressed in the form of a singular integral equation, the use of a linear transformation of the variables enables the transformed equation to refer to the junction with an inserted diaphragm. The transformed equation is solved for two particular cases. In the first, a bifurcated waveguide, the solution to the diaphragm configuration can be written down almost by inspection. The equivalent circuit is not altered by the diaphragm though the values of the circuit elements are modified. In the second, a waveguide step, a more complicated and less obvious transformation is required. The method works for a diaphragm on one wall of the guide but not on the other, due to current limitations in the theory of singular integral equations."
"A three-way power divider/summer in the Wilkinson configuration can be symmetrically fabricated in stripline if the Y resistive balancing network is replaced by a /spl Delta/ resistive network. Port-to-port isolation in a stripline circuit at 2 GHz exceeded 27 dB; loss was below 0.15 dB."
"A parametric relationship is presented that permits an estimation of phase shifter peak power threshold level. The experimentally observed effect of a load mismatch on the peak power threshold is also reported."
"The algorithm computes the permanent of a square matrix which has been shown to yield the number of loops in a microwave network flow graph."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Microwave acoustics is becoming a very important area for microwave engineers and work in this area is presently being carried out at various laboratories. The area of microwave acoustics is a natural one for microwave engineers to get involved in because of its similarity to classical microwave theory and techniques. The purpose of this issue is to bring to the attention of the microwave engineer the work being done in this area and the problems that require further investigation. It is hoped that this issue will bring out the relevance between classical microwave theory and techniques and microwave acoustics. The effort to organize this issue was enormous, and we were very fortunate to have Dr. A.J. Bahr, a well-known contributor in this area, as Guest Editor. His tremendous efforts in organizing this issue, as well as his other contributions as Chairman of the G-MTT Technical Committee on Microwave Acoustics, are greatly appreciated."
"The Technical Committee on Microwave Acoustics has undertaken the task of putting together this special issue on 'microwave acoustics.\" The subject of this issue overlaps a great deal with the field of interest of the IEEE Sonics and Ultrasonics Group. Therefore, it was decided to make the special issue a joint effort between the G-MTT and the G-SU, and wish to thank that group for all its help and cooperation. The avowed purpose of this issue is to inform the readership of the developments and problem areas in microwave acoustics. It is hoped that it will make more microwave-oriented researchers aware of the relevance of their microwave backgrounds to microwave acoustics and will stimulate them to begin working in this field."
"During the past 20 years the value of the microwave approach to electromagnetic field problems has been amply demonstrated. The purpose of this paper is to show the basic similarity of acoustic and electromagnetic field equations and to exploit this fact in applying microwave methods to acoustic resonator and waveguide problems. This is accomplished most directly and efficiently by using symbolic notation, rather than tensor subscripts, for the acoustic fields. The usefulness of this notation is illustrated by the problems of plane wave propagation and piezoelectric stiffening in an anisotropic medium, and by derivations of Poynting's and reciprocity theorems for a piezoelectric medium. Piezoelectric resonators are treated in detail from the point of view of normal mode expansions. A general network representation is obtained and is applied to the disk transducer, as an example. Normal mode theory of piezoelectric waveguides is briefly sketched and a perturbation theorem, which can be applied to both resonator and waveguide problems, is derived."
"The possibility of obtaining true microminiaturization by the use of elastic wave circuitry on solids is hampered by the lack of knowledge regarding the behavior of the constituents of those circuits. Since boundary value problems involving elastic waves in solids are generally very intricate and difficult to solve, a direct frontal attack on those problems will in many cases lead to frustration. In this paper, a series of steps is outlined which avoids the frontal attack and lends itself to a systematic procedure for achieving the understanding sought. It involves the application of concepts and techniques of proven value in electromagnetic microwaves to corresponding categories of problems in elastic guided waves. To demonstrate the value of this approach, it is used to derive the properties of several well-known types of elastic wave on layered media, such as Rayleigh surface waves, leaky Rayleigh waves, Lamb waves, and Love waves. In the building-block approach employed, the results derived separately include transmission-line models for body waves in fluids and isotropic solids, with expressions for the characteristic impedances and the velocity and stress vector mode functions, and equivalent networks for several types of interface which are constituents of the layered media mentioned above. The propagation properties of the guided waves are then obtained by the use of the transverse resonance procedure in a systematic, simple, and direct fashion."
"Excitation of elastic waves in a general anisotropic crystal is discussed. The crystal is supposed to be semi-infinite, bounded by a plane surface. The definition of an elastic impedance matrix for the medium and its use in the subsequent discussion emphasize the similarities with transmission line theory. The resulting expressions for the amplitudes of bulk waves and surface waves is expressed in a matrix formalism believed to have computational advantages."
"Surface acoustic wave components have been realized which perform the functions of transduction, amplification, and coupling. Applications are suggested which make use of these components. Exploratory work in connection with surface acoustic waveguides suggests the feasibility of acoustic analogs of conventional microwave transmission line (microsound) components on the surface of crystal and substrates. These microsound transmission lines, hybrids, and directional couplers interconnect microsound transducers, amplifiers, isolators, and phase shifters to form microsound circuits capable of autocorrelation, Fourier transformation, and cross correlation functions. Compatible component configurations are proposed and evaluated which perform these basic functions. The anticipated difficulties with their realization are discussed and the current status of critical problems including the epitaxial growth of thin films and submicron etching procedures will be given. Several circuits capable of performing correlation functions are given."
"The generation and propagation of acoustic surface waves is reviewed with particular emphasis on the microwave-frequency range. Theoretical work on optimizing the generation efficiency and the bandwidth of interdigital transducers is compared with recent experimental results. The minimum Iinewidth of 0.9 /spl mu/m which can be produced by optical photolithographic techniques places an upper limit of about 1 GHz on the maximum frequency that can be generated at the fundamental mode. Overtone operation has been used to generate 3 GHz surface waves on LiNbO/sub 3/ but this method has the disadvantage of reduced efficiency plus the complication of volume-wave generation. A better solution for generation above 1 GHz is the fabrication of interdigital transducers by means of electron beam exposure of the photoresist. The surface-wave propagation loss gives a significant contribution to the total insertion loss of delay lines operating at microwave frequencies. Losses of 1.1 dB//spl mu/s and 3.8 dB//spl mu/s at 0.9 GHz and 2 GHz, respectively, have been measured for propagation along the Z-direction of Y-cut LiNbO/sub 3/ by means of a laser deflection method. Larger losses have been observed for quartz. The additional complexities for surface-wave propagation due to the anisotropic single-crystal substrates which are necessary at microwave frequencies are also described."
"Immittance, transfer, and scattering characteristics are studied for acoustic surface wave transducers of the interdigital electrode form. Linear network models are used to represent the transducer as a chain of identical three-ports which are acoustically in cascade but electrically in parallel. Transducer operation at acoustic synchronism is described theoretically and compared to current experimental data for transducers operating at 100 MHz and fabricated on lithium niobate. Favorable lithium niobate configurations for efficient, broad-band transducer operation are given. Scattering characteristics as a function of electric load are discussed. Low values of acoustic reflection loss are predicted theoretically and observed experimentally when the electric load and transducer capacitance are in resonance. The frequency dependence of transducer radiation immittance is studied, and the response is found to be analogous to the response of an endfire antenna array."
"Design aspects and tradeoffs are presented for nondispersive, analog Rayleigh wave delay lines with interdigital transducers. Design procedures are based on a one-dimensional piezoelectric transducer model whose applicability has been confirmed by experimental data taken on transducers operating at 100 MHz. For transducers with series inductive tuning, optimum aperture and number of interdigital periods are given for several attractive piezoelectrics, such that insertion loss and phase dispersion are minimized while bandwidth is maximized. High-triple transit suppression designs are given for bidirectional transducers, implying some sacrifice in insertion loss. Using directional transducers, low insertion loss and high triple transit suppression are achieved simultaneously at some sacrifice in bandwidth. Finally, two approaches are given for making with presently available piezoelectrics, bandwidths higher than those attainable with a single tuning inductor. The first of these uses a coupled resonator electrical matching network, while the second employs a transducer with graded periodicity."
"The excitation of a Rayleigh surface wave on a piezoelectric crystal by the scattering of bulk waves from strips deposited on the crystal's surface is considered. Using small scatterer approximations to obtain a lower limit for the strength of excitation that can be obtained by the scattering method, the Rayleigh wave excitation resulting from the mass of the deposited strips is determined. Numerical calculations for CdS, LiNbo/sub 3/, and isotropic solids indicate that this method of excitation is feasible. Simple, small scatterer estimates for the order of magnitude of the excitation resulting from the conductivity of strips deposited on CdS and LiNbO /sub 3/suggest that the Rayleigh wave can be more strongly excited through the mass of the strips than through their conductivity. In order to evaluate the Rayleigh wave excitation, an expression has been derived that describes the excitation of elastic surface waves, guided by configurations composed of infinite, parallel layers of arbitrary piezoelectric and elastic materials, when the source of these waves are prescribed, two-dimensional force and current distributions. This expression for the surface wave excitation coefficient depends only on the source and the properties of the surface wave, and is expected to prove useful in rating a wide variety of exciting structures. For the scattering method of excitation considered here, the effect of the incident bulk wave on the strips can be represented by approximately equivalent sources, which excite the surface wave."
"An important requirement for the development of surface wave microsound systems is the ability to guide the energy. The theoretical and experimental progress towards this aim is reviewed. Some preliminary results on topographic guides are presented. Measurement techniques make use of phase-sensitive laser probes to detect the CW surface waves. The technique permits very accurate determination of dispersion characteristics."
"The wave equation for elastic waves in an isotropic solid is solved generally in Cartesian and in circular cylindrical coordinates. The solutions are applied in the study of a variety of guiding structures of circular and rectangular symmetry. In general, the wave functions do not satisfy the boundary conditions, but in special cases they do. From a study of these special cases it is possible to arrive at some useful results and to general principles which give some insight into the behavior of waveguides in general. The results and observations obtained are compared and where appropriate, with corresponding results for electromagnetic waveguides."
"To study some of the properties of acoustic waves guided by thin films, experiments on dispersion and transverse tightness of binding were performed in the frequency range 5 MHz to 14 MHz. The movable wedge technique of launching and receiving surface wave signals was utilized. The guidance structure consisted of thin gold films deposited on fused quartz. High resolution experimental results were obtained by modifying the wedges to have a very narrow active region. The data were compared to results predicted by a simplified theoretical model which we have developed. This model is complementary to that of Tiersten in that we match both components of the vector potential while in Tiersten's model one matches a single vector potential component and its normal derivative. Curves calculated by our approach appear to be virtually identical with those of Tiersten for the (width/thickness) ratios treated experimentally, but are much easier to obtain numerically for any particular value of the ratio. For smaller values of the (width/thickness) ratio, our model and that of Tiersten differ slightly. Data for dispersion and mode tightness of binding were found to be in substantial agreement with our theoretical predictions. In addition, the theoretical model predicts features such as location of low-frequency cutoffs and tightness of binding of the antisymmetric modes which have not been completely investigated experimentally."
"The subject of acoustoelectric surface wave delay line amplification is reviewed. Two amplifier configurations are defined: the combined medium amplifier (CMA), and the separated medium amplifier (SMA). These configurations are compared and the problems associated with each one defined. A more detailed description of the SMA is given along with experimental results. A brief analysis is presented; two material constants are defined, and then used to compare materials in terms of SMA applicability at high frequencies."
"Solutions for surface elastic waves propagating in a layered media consisting of a CdS film on a fused quartz substrate have been found. Piezoelectric coupling in the CdS has been included. The Rayleigh, Sezawa, and Love modes are discussed. The surface wave velocity, mechanical displacements, and electric fields are found as a function of layer thickness for the Rayleigb and Sezawa modes. Velocity dispersion was experimentally measured and found to be in good agreement with theory."
"Transducers which utilize acoustoelectric conversion in a piezoelectric film, plate, or surface have found wide application for generating planar volume-acoustic waves at microwave frequencies. A review is given of the electrical impedance, conversion loss, and bandwidth characteristics for piezoelectric film or plate transducers which vibrate in one-dimensional thickness extensional or shear modes. The transducer response is related to the electric and acoustic parameters that describe the transducer configuration, and experimental examples are given to illustrate the operation of typical transducer configurations. Methods for achieving low conversion loss and/or broad bandwidth are discussed and experimental examples given. Tables of bulk material constants are supplied for commonly used plate and film devices, and transducer fabrication methods are reviewed. Other types of volume wave transducers, such as those utilizing a single piezoelectric surface, a diffusion layer in a piezoelectric semiconductor, or mode conversion at a boundary are also briefly discussed."
"A mathematical analysis of the input impedance to a single-ended delay line is given and the developed formulas are applied to the experimental data to yield: sound velocity and round-trip time in the delay medium, electromechanical coupling coefficient, series resistance, transducer capacity, and the acoustical loss and mismatch which is caused by the electrode structure. A measuring technique similar to the nodal shift method has been introduced."
"The delay of signals for microsecond time periods in monolithic structures using piezoelectric semiconductors is described. Thin resistive regions were formed by the diffusion of compensating impurities in semiconducting crystals of ZnO, CdS, CdSe, and GaAs and used as transducers for the excitation and detection of acoustic waves in the 30-MHz to 1.0-GHZ region. Time delays from 200 ns to 5.0 /spl mu/s were achieved using simple acoustic transmission structures. Insertion loss values less than 10 dB were achieved in ZnO for microsecond delays up to 600 MHz. Frequency-tuned bandwidths of 70 to 90 percent were obtained. The frequency-loss characteristics of the delay structures could be quantitatively related to a simple theoretical model. The performance characteristics of representative matched and packaged acoustic delay lines is described."
"A method is described for generating simulated microwave frequency RADAR terrain echoes. This method makes it possible for the first time to realistically duplicate in the laboratory the principal characteristics of echoes due to RADAR motion and terrain roughness. These characteristics include variation of echo delay, Doppler shift, random fine structure, and their time variation. The simulation is based on modeling of the RADAR beam propagation and diffuse reflection processes by use of microwave acoustic energy in a solid medium. Scaling relations between RADAR and acoustic model parameters are derived. An experimental program was carried out whose purpose was to develop a practical solution to the problem of varying the distance between a microwave acoustic transducer and a reflecting surface, and to determine the overall feasibility of the simulation method. Results indicating its practicability are presented and directions for further work are suggested."
"The ability of devices based on the phenomena of magnetoelastic waves, acoustic bulk waves, acoustic surface waves, and the optoacoustic interaction to fulfill the requirements for a dispersive filter for a pulse compression RADAR are reviewed. The performance and current limitations of devices that use techniques employing these effects are described. The discussion is generally limited to devices which have been operated in the frequency range above 100 MHz. For comparison, other solid-state techniques that do not employ acoustic waves which can be used to make dispersive filter are described."
"Needs for nondispersive microwave variable delay devices exist in RADAR, communication, ECM, and test systems. Methods which have been investigated to satisfy these needs are reviewed in this paper. Techniques that employ solid-state microwave acoustic interactions and that have promise of satisfying some of the microwave variable delay requirements are described in detail, and their present capabilities and potential capabilities are discussed. One technique employing magnetoelastic waves is particularly promising and the state of the art of this technique is analyzed thoroughly."
"Two types of YIG variable-delay-time microwave delay lines are described. These are the YIG-YAG-YIG and YAG-YIG-YAG configurations, both of which provide /spl sim/2 /spl mu/s of variable delay in L-band. Two-port operation is achieved in both of these devices with leakage of the undelayed pulse between input and output being attenuated more than 100 dB. These are completely self-contained devices with internal permanent magnets and terminals for connecting a control signal to vary the delay time. Insertion loss, bandwidth, and VSWR data are presented as well as curves showing delay variation with control current. A comparison of these two types of delay lines is also presented, pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of each type."
"The diffraction of a plane light wave incident obliquely upon an isotropic dielectric layer traversed longitudinally by an acoustic microwave is examined by means of a guided-wave approach. In addition to a considerable amount of physical insight, this approach provides a wide range of techniques that have already been developed extensively in the area of electromagnetic microwaves. As a consequence, available methods can be used to explain and express known aspects of the diffracted light in terms of simple guided-wave concepts which are applied herein to derive results that have not been available. It is shown that the difracted field within the dielectric layer, as well as in the exterior (air) medium, can be described by means of two alternative modal representations: 1) a description in terms of characteristic modes which progress independently of each other, and 2) a description in terms of coupled modes which interact with each other in the presence of the acoustic wave. While the two representations are equivalent, each has its own advantages and both are discussed in detail. It is also shown that these representations lead to equivalent networks that may be utilized to account for boundary conditions and for other features of the scattered field. In particular, diffraction phenomena in a Bragg regime are carefully investigated; qualitative and quantitative results are presented for situations wherein the orientation of the optic-acoustic interaction occurs at a Bragg angle of arbitrary order."
"The role of linear transversal filters in signal processing is discussed in Section I. Linear filters for signal processing must often have complicated impulse responses, with large bandwidth and large time bandwidth product. The linear transversal falter, a delay line with weighted and summed taps, is ideally suited for the implementation of such filters because of its simplicity of synthesis. The filter's impulse response is derived by the application of some concepts from the theories of vector spaces and sampling, and is shown to be equal to the tap weighting function. Thus, the synthesis procedure consists merely of sampling the specified impulse response at appropriate intervals and using the sample values as the tap weights. The utility of the transversal filter in signal processing is illustrated by an example from scatterer distribution mapping. The illustration is applied to two hypothetical systems--a SONAR and an astronomical RADAR. In both these cases, it is not possible for a single filter to process the signal in real time. Signal processing in compressed time is discussed as an alternative to the use of a large number of filters in parallel. If the processing filter has a bandwidth capability in excess of the signal's bandwidth, the signal can be time compressed and processed serially in time. A generalized receiver, employing time compression, frequency translation, and multiple-output-port transversal filtering, is developed from these ideas. In Section II, a generalized transversal filter is described and analyzed. A delay line with multiple arrays of taps, each array with a multiplicity of weighting functions, has as the impulse response between any pair of ports the cross-correlation function of the weighting functions for the two ports. A number of implementations of transversal filters employing a variety of delay line types are described and some aspects of transduction and wave propagation in bounded media are presented in relation to these implementations."
"Some experimental results are presented which demonstrate the feasibility of using transistor circuits (of the inverted common-collector type) as elements in impedance-matching networks for microwave acoustic delay lines. This technique is shown to offer the possibility of realizing matched delay lines having both low insertion loss and low spurious triple-transit echo level."
"VHF experiments are described employing 11- and 50-tap surface acoustic wave delay lines fabricated on crystalline quartz as analog matched filters. Excellent correlation characteristics were observed for a 63-bit maximal length biphase code."
"The dispersion characteristics have been obtained for a gold film overlay on lithium niobate into which Rayleigh waves around 100 MHz are injected. Phase and attenuation measurements are conducted continuously as the gold film is deposited under vacuum conditions. Linear increase of delay with frequency is observed for a gold thickness approximating 5000 /spl Aring/."
"Acoustic scattering parameters for the interdigital transducer are calculated as a function of electrical loading and frequency using an equivalent circuit model of the interdigital transducer. Measurements of the surface wave scattering parameters at 100 MHz are reported which are in close agreement with theory. Applications of the interdigital array as an efficient reflector of surface waves and as a weak low-reflecting tapping transducer are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Dallas Chapter of the IEEE Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques hosted the 1969 IEEE G-MTT International Microwave Symposium, May 5-7, 1969, at the Marriott Motor Hotel, Dallas, Tex. This year's Symposium was highlighted by a greatly expanded and comprehensive technical program which included twelve sessions and three panel discussions. For the first time, parallel sessions were held in both the regular sessions and panel discussions, and late news items were included as a feature of the program. Ninety-six papers, including twelve late news items, were included in the program; eighteen panel members made up the three discussion panels. The expanded progmm resulted in a Symposium Digest of over 500 pages. A review of the conference events is provided."
"This paper describes and analyzes the circuits which have been used successfully for TRAPATT oscillator studies. The results lead to a better understanding of the TRAPATT oscillator and yield a simple model of the oscillator which is useful for circuit design. The circuit characteristics of an experimental TRAPATT oscillator are determined from measurements on the circuits and from equivalent circuit model calculations. The following conclusions can be drawn from the analysis. First, the avalanche diode requires sufficient capacitance near the diode to sustain the high-current state required for TRAPATT operation. Secondly, at a distance from the diode corresponding to approximately one half-wavelength at the TRAPATT frequency the transmission line containing the diode should be terminated by a low-pass filter. The function of the filter is to pass the TRAPATT frequency and to provide a shorting plane for the harmonics of that frequency. Finally, on the load side of the filter, tuning for the TRAPATT frequency is required. The model of the circuit described above suggests a simple explanation of the diode-circuit interaction in a TRAPATT oscillator. Simplified waveforms suggested by the model have been used to calculate power out-put, efficiency, dc voltage change, and RF impedance for the oscillator. The results agree within a few percent with those obtained for an experimental oscillator. An important conclusion of the analysis is that the high-efficiency operation of avalanche diodes at frequencies in the UHF range can be explained by the TRAPATT theory, even though the trapped-plasma or low-voltage state may last only 1/20th of the oscillation period."
"A simple microstrip oscillator circuit has been designed and operated satisfactorily with high-power high-efficiency avalanche diodes. The power output obtained from a single diode chip is ahout 100 watts at 1 GHz with efficiencies of 25 to 30 percent. Mechanical tuning capability of a few hundred megahertz and a combined power output from series-connected diodes have been demonstrated using the circuit. An essential part of the circuit is a low-pass filter tuning section which enables the circuit to support high-order harmonics including the transit-time frequency and prevents them from getting to the load. Probe measurements of the electric field show strong second as well as third harmonics inside the circuit."
"Multistage microwave transistor amplifiers of simple construction have been developed. In these amplifiers, unit amplifiers of the same design are connected in cascade with short transmission lines inserted between each amplifier. The n-stage (three-, four-, five-, six-, and seven-stage) amplifiers designed for the 4-GHz band gave power gains n times that of the unit amplifier (4 dB) and flat bandwidths of about 1000 MHz. The stripline circuit of the amplifier is fabricated on alumina substrates in the usual way. The amplifier has the disadvantage of poor input and output impedance matching. However, this problem was solved by integrating isolators in the input and output ports of the multistage amplifier. Noise performance of the amplifier is also described."
"Many frequency multipliers can be viewed as consisting of an impedance inverter which couples together impedances at two different frequencies. Using this point of view, the design, construction, and evaluation of a five-resonator, broad-band frequency doubler employing charge-storage diodes is discussed. The doubler is a balanced design, employing two diodes and a balun. Design procedures which relate a low-pass filter prototype to the doubler circuit are presented. Good agreement between theory and experiment has been demonstrated; the experimental doubler exhibits approximately an octave bandwidth at 50 percent efficiency with an input frequency range of 1 to 2 GHz."
"A coplanar waveguide consists of a strip of thin metallic film on the surface of a dielectric slab with two ground electrodes running adjacent and parallel to the strip. This novel transmission line readily lends itself to nonreciprocal magnetic device applications because of the built-in circularly polarized magnetic vector at the air-dielectric boundary between the conductors. Practical applications of the coplanar waveguide have been experimentally demonstrated by measurements on resonant isolators and differential phase shifters fabricated on low-loss dielectric substrates with high dielectric constants. Calculations have been made for the characteristic impedance, phase velocity, and ripper bound of attenuation of a transmission line whose electrodes are all on one side of a dielectric substrate. These calculations are in good agreement with preliminary experimental results. The coplanar configuration of the transmission system not only permits easy shunt connection of external elements in hybrid integrated circuits, but also adapts well to the fabrication of monolithic integrated systems. Low-loss dielectric substrates with high dielectric constants may be employed to reduce the longitudinal dimension of the integrated circuits because the characteristic impedance of the coplanar waveguide is relatively independent of the substrate thickness; this may be of vital importance for Iow-frequency integrated microwave systems."
"The slot line, a novel transmission line suitable for application to microwave integrated circuits, may be used in place of or in association with microstrip. This paper presents experimental and theoretical data concerning slot line wavelength, characteristic impedance, transitions, and tolerances. The measurements have been conducted at S band using different dielectric constant materials. Experimental results indicate that the slot wavelength /spl lambda/ agrees with theory to within 2 percent, whereas the characteristic impedance of the slot line was measured to be about 30 percent less than the theoretical value. Tolerances associated with the theoretical slot line parameters were not found to be critical."
"This paper presents preliminary results and conclusions of experimental investigation of the potential usefulness of slot transmission line. Measurement of phase constant, insertion loss, and other general characteristics are presented and compared with theoretical predictions. Transitions from slot to coax and slot to microstrip are described.One of the more interesting characteristics of slot line, the existence of an elliptically polarized H field, is applied in planar ferrite phase shifter design. Experimental data are presented including preliminary latched phase shift results."
"A design procedure for narrow-band bandpass TEM-line elliptic-function filters is presented. The proposed realization is in the form of a stepped-impedance digital n-wire line which is one-half of a wavelength long at midband and short circuited to ground at both ends, where the digital line is stepped in impedance along any arbitrary prescribed plane in the filter. Due to its physical form and mode of electrical operation, the filter has been termed the half-wave stepped digital elliptic filter. A detailed design procedure for the construction of the two characteristic admittance matrices which describe the digital n-wire line from the low-pass prototype element values is presented. It is also shown that the normalized impedance values of the elements in the filter are all of the order of unity and independent of the actual bandwidth of the falter except for the input and output transformer elements. A numerical example and experimental results on a seventh-degree 1-percent bandwidth filter with a center frequency at 3.7 GHz are given, demonstrating the significant improvements which may be obtained from the half-wave stepped digital elliptic filter over most other known form of microwave TEM-line narrow-band bandpass filter."
"This paper describes the development of a practical circuit for realizing narrow-bandwidth elliptic-function filters at microwave frequencies. The design procedure is presented for TEM filters of any bandwidth up to about 10 percent. Experimental verification of the low-loss feature of the elliptic-function response is demonstrated with measured data on 1-percent-bandwidth strip-transmission-line S-band filters."
"Digital computer techniques are developed for the approximation of the periodic frequency characteristics of commensurate transmission-line circuits. For a given periodic delay or loss-derivative function the system function is derived automatically rising a direct method. Any suitable synthesis program will complete the design."
"A type of filter structure is discussed which has application for quasi-optical systems using focused beams or oversized waveguide. The filter structure consists of a number of focusing reflectors which in the passband of the filter focus the energy from one reflector to the next so that the energy is beamed in a zig-zag fashion. However, the focusing reflectors are made from arrays of spaced-apart metal plates with the edges of the plates parallel to the E field. The focusing face of each reflector is thus formed by the front edges of the plates, When the frequency is suffcientIy high so that the spacing between the plates is greater than a half-wavelength, the energy passes between the plates and is absorbed by dissipative material placed therein. Thus above a certain frequency the reflectors are absorptive and a stopband is formed. A trial three-reflector structure was fabricated and tested with very encouraging results. The minimum loss points in the passband were about 1 dB, and the stopband was broad and free from spurious responses. There were 3- or 4-dB attenuation spikes in the passband due to \"trapped modes,\" but it should be possible to eliminate these by improved mode launchers."
"An asymptotic technique is presented, resulting in an analytically simple self-consistent description of the modes of a circular dielectric structure. When the dielectric difference between the rod and surrounding medium is small, the asymptotic expressions are valid for all frequencies. Even when the inside dielectric constant is twice the outside, less than a 10 percent error is usually involved. A simple functional expression for the eigenvalues of both the circular rod and the dielectric slab results from the analysis, thus eliminating the need for numerical or graphical methods."
"A technique similar to that of Kirchhoff is used to obtain an analytic expression for mode Iaunching on a semi-infinite rod. The approximation is quasi-optical and only valid for small angles of incidence /spl theta/. When /spl theta/ = 0 only HE/sub 1M/ modes are excited; however, for /spl theta/<<1 many modes can be launched. The effect on HE/sub 11/ mode propagation of small imperfections in a dielectric waveguide is analyzed. At the frequency of interest for optical communication (cutoff for the TM/sub 01/ mode) the radiated power is 160 times larger than that scattered into the HE/sub 11/ mode."
"A feasibility demonstration RADAR system that operates at 94 GHz is outlined. A major goal of the program is the obtaining of RADAR echoes from orbiting objects for space object identification purposes. The RADAR is a linear FM pulse compression system with an eventual pulse time (1 ms)-bandwidth (1 GHz) product of 10/sup 6/. Experimental results of short range tests are discussed as well as details of the phase-locked loop linearizing system employed."
"lnterdigitated microstrip couplers consist of three or more parallel striplines with alternate lines tied together. A single ground plane, a single dielectric, and a single layer of metallization are used. Thus the approach is eminently suited for monolithic or hybrid thin-film microwave integrated circuitry. Tight coupling is achieved much more easily than with noninterdigitated edge-coupled lines. Fabrication and tolerance problems make it almost impossible to build noninterdigitated 3-dB edge couplers. Also, current crowding at the edges, which can result in high loss, is much less severe for the interdigitated coupler. Previously, tight coupling in directional couplers for microwave integrated circuits has been achieved by broadside coupling, reentrant sections, tandem sections, or branch-line couplers. Some of the disadvantages of these approaches are narrow bandwidth, large substrate area, and the need for multilayer circuitry. A 3dB directional coupler (quadrature hybrid) for S band has been fabricated in microstrip on 40-mil alumina. A single quarter-wave section was used. The hybrid showed a directivity of over 27 dB, a return loss of over 25 dB, an insertion loss of less than 0.13 dB, and an imbalance of less than 0.25 dB over a 40 percent bandwidth."
"The stacked-junction circulator, in which two ordinary ferrite-loaded junctions are stacked and assembled in a common housing, is described. A UHF-band stripline stacked circulator and a VHF-band lumped-element stacked one have been constructed and proved to be effective in improving the cost to power performance."
"A photolithographically produced lumped-element circulator is described. Complete physical and electrical symmetry is assured by interweaving the junction conductors using either dielectricor air crossovers and by employing symmetrically configured interdigital capacitors. Series resonant matching circuits compatible with photoetching techniques are proposed. The device is designed for operation at fields below the field for gyromagnetic resonance so that all of the circulator elements, as well as connecting circuitry, may be generated on the ferrite as a substrate without the necessity of magnetizing the entire substrate. This approach, which is applicable to any stripline configuration, makes it feasible to produce lumped element circulators for microwave integrated circuits at frequencies well above the range for previously reported lumped-element devices consisting of an assemblage of discrete components."
"A power amplifier in which the outputs of 64 RCA type 2N5016 overlay transistors are combined to provide a total CW output power of 1 kW at 400 MHz is described. A concept is employed wherein several transistors are connected in parallel to first form a power module, and then the outputs of a number of modules are combined in a Wilkinson N-way hybrid power combiner. This combiner has built-in isolation between each of the N input terminals. An identical N-way hybrid is employed as a power divider providing equal distribution of driving signal to each of the power moduIes. An overall power gain of 33 dB is achieved by providing additional transistor stages of preamplification. CW and pulse performance of the amplifier is described. Performance of the amplifier as the driver for a high-power tetrode tube is reported."
"This correspondence presents a simple circuit which allows direct combining of the power obtainable from several avalanche diodes. The circuit does not require extremely close matching of dc or RF diode characteristics, and no particular isolating networks such as hybrid combiners are necessary. CW power output exceeding 4 watts at 7 GHz and 3 watts at 9 GHz has been demonstrated in a device employing five diodes. The number of diodes which can be combined using this technique is limited by geometric and heat sink considerations. Descriptions of typical single-diode and multiple-diode oscillators are given along with equivalent circuits. The circuits employ resistors or resistor networks to suppress low-frequency oscillations and undesired resonances which occur when several oscillators are coupled together. Negligible insertion loss is incurred at the design output frequency. Measured performance is given on similar single- and multiple-diode oscillators. Data include frequency, power, AM noise, FM noise, temperature, and loaded Q."
"Parallel combinations of Gunn diodes for X-band are fabricated with three types of n-type GaAs crystals. The diodes are mesa structured and mounted upside down on a copper stud of a package in parallel combination. An output power of 450 mW in CW operation at an efficiency of 2.9 percent is obtained in a double-mounted diode at 9 GHz."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"The effect of circuit inductance on the performance of electrical contacts in low-voltage circuits has been investigated. The contact electrodes interrupt currents in the range 5 amperes to 15 amperes in a 6-volt circuit over a wide range of inductances, 0.1\\muH to 10\\muH. Measurements of the voltage transient across the opening electrodes show that an arc discharge occurs at all values of the circuit inductance. The duration of the arc is found to be proportional to the inductance. In an associated experiment, metal migration from cathode to anode and from anode to cathode is measured using a radioactive tracer technique. It is found that the metal transfer is strongly dependent upon the inductance, and hence the duration of the arc, even at the lowest values of the inductance. The effect of the rupture of the molten metal bridge and the subsequent micro-arc is discussed with relation to the observed metal transfer."
"The concept of optimum shape of inductors is discussed. The optimum shape is defined to be that of the inductor which has the smallest volume for a given set of electrical specifications. This definition has the widest application and can be used to calculate the optimum shape. A dimensionless function of the proportions of the inductor is related to the definition and is used to calculate the optimum shapes of three types of core: toroidal, E, and pot cores. Equations are developed to help the reader calculate the optimum shapes of other types of core."
"It was theoretically demonstrated and experimentally confirmed that molten bridges can be categorized into two types; first, static bridges where the velocity of separation is sufficiently low that the volume of the molten metal is independent of the velocity, and second, the dynamic bridge where the velocity of separation is sufficiently high that the volume,of the molten metal is dependent on the velocity. The critical velocity, which divides two types of bridges, is determined solely by the contact current and thermal properties of metals. The experiment was carried out by Pd and stainless steel contacts by using an arrangement allowing contacts to be operated at high controlled velocity of separation."
"When a contact breaks an inductive load, large voltage surges lead to breakdowns and arcing in the contact gap, which tend to complicate the estimation of resulting contact erosion. A description is given of an empirical method for treating this form of contact wear that has been widely used in telephone-switching practice. The method relates the contact life to a \"load energy factor\" involving the stored inductive energy of the load and the circuit current flowing at the instant of contact break. Approximate arc energy expressions are then developed, which are found to indicate a reasonable theoretical basis for the original empirical method. These expressions are also found to indicate how contact energy and related erosion are likely to be influenced by the various properties of circuit, contact, and load."
"New techniques for obtaining and processing resistance, sticking, and sensitivity data for dry reed sealed contacts via a real-time data system are described. The system consists of a small digital computers an acquisition subsystem with an expandable capacity of 114 contacts, a magnetic disc mass memory, and a plotter. A description of data collection, reduction, storage, and presentation is included, and analysis techniques are discussed. The results of actual tests run with this system are presented and compared with results of tests run with other, less sophisticated, test sets."
"A procedure for making contacts between a field ion microscope emitter tip and a fiat surface is described. Iron, tungsten, platinum, and iridium tips were contacted with glass, graphite, nickel, tungsten, gold, or platinum plates. The maximum permissible values for the contact pressure and the current density of the four metals were estimated from the contact load and the current through the contact point, respectively. A contact pressure or a current density above these critical values caused severe plastic deformation of a tip. The measured elastic limits of these metals are quite high and close to the theoretically expected values of the maximum shear stress. The current density through a Contact point is also higher than the permissible current density for the bulk materials. Contaminating surface layers on the nickel plates prevent damage to the tips due to cold welding and yet allow a very high contact current density. The transfer of materials by cold welding or by an arcing between the two metals is described."
"When an electrical contact breaks an inductive circuit, a showering arc is a common result. This type of arc is characterized by large, rapid voltage fluctuations appearing across the separating contacts. The mechanisms of the showering arc are discussed in detail and combined into a computer program designed to simulate the showering arc and calculate the energy dissipated at the contacts. Considering the complexity and variability of showering arcs, good simulation has been achieved."
"An experimental hybrid thick-film module has been developed that performs the functions of color demodulation and amplification in a color television receiver. The module consists of three principal circuit sections, all included on one 1 x 2 inch substrate: 1) two dual-diode color demodulators, 2) color-difference amplifiers, and 3) a four-diode dc restoration circuit that clamps all three color-difference signals. The circuit normally consumes about 9 watts from a +250-volt dc supply. Circuit features and design parameters are discussed, and the construction of the module is described. The module contains 49 components which include ceramic cup packaged transistors and diodes, screened resistors and capacitors, and high-voltage chip capacitors. Thermal limitations imposed by various packaging concepts are reviewed, and several novel types of heat sinking and encapsulation approaches are described. Results are presented on electrical, thermal, environmental, and functional tests of this color TV circuit module."
"The theoretical background and techniques for constructing multipurpose miniature thin-film inductors are presented. These inductors use a thin-film gold spiral encapsulated with deposited ferrite film and present Q values of 100 in the range of 1-1200 µH. The ferrite film is deposited from thermal decomposition of an iodine solution containing the desired metal cations. The magnetic and electric properties of the deposited ferrite films are presented. A technique for etching the gold conducting spiral is described. The geometric form of the conducting spiral is optimized to give the minimum power dissipation. Skin-effect losses, eddy-current losses, hysteresis losses, and the total dissipation factor of the inductors are derived theoretically and compared with the experimental results. The frequency, current, and temperature characteristics of the thin-film planar inductors are fully described."
"A study has been made of the bulk electrical conductivity and oxidation characteristics of several typical circuitbreaker contact alloys. Results were correlated with temperature rise behavior of the same materials. It was concluded that surface phenomena, particularly oxidation, exert a more potent effect on temperature characteristics than does bulk electrical conductivity."
"The resistance of certain electrical transition interfaces involving plane, nonplated aluminum contact surfaces increases with service. Analysis of resistance characteristics indicates formation of the contact interface during connection installation produces systematic disruption of the surface film. Interfacial shear strain -- relative movement--between the contact members is identified as the efficient cause of the increase in resistance. If the selected combination of contact surfaces and members for an application does not assure adequate interfacial fixity, the introduction of a shear component of contact force--parallel to the plane representing the interface--may destroy or, if destroyed, may reestablish elemental electric contacts, depending upon the orientation of the shear component. Test data include contact resistances of interfaces involving Al and Cu conductors as well as Ag, Cd, Ni, and Sn platings."
"High..molecular-weight organic compounds (hereinafter designated simply as polymers) are widely used in the manufacture of miniature capacitors because of their excellent dielectric characteristics and suitability for molding and processing. These capacitors frequently use thin~film dielectrics made of polystyrene and polyethylene terephthalate stretched films. On the other hand, examples of manufacturing techniques for making thin films of these materials for application in the field of microelectronics have been rare, and it appears that none has been developed to the stage of practical application. Polymers are essentially nonvolatile, and since they thermally decompose at a comparatively low temperature, existing thin-film techniques, 'which have been concerned mostly with inorganic materials, can not be readily applied. However, if appropriate thin-film fabrication techniques could be developed, the noncrystalline nature of these materials (and their basic long linear molecular structure that may be cross-linked) is considered extremely suitable for achieving excellent thin-film dielectric formations having few structural defects. A processing method has been developed for directly polymerizing and growing thin-film polymers on substrates by plasma reaction in a monomer atmosphere. Good results have already been realized in the production of thin-film cpacitors. In this paper, an outline of a new process for manufacturing thinfilm polymers, and the characteristics of thin-film organic dielectrics made by this process, are presented."
"The corrosion of base metals through porous gold plate adversely effects the reliability of electronic connectors. Little is known, however, of these corrosion mechanisms, especially with gold-plated nickel. Previous work had been concerned almost exclusively with sulfide tarnishing of gold-plated silver or copper. This paper considers the corrosion of gold-plated nickel in environments containing sulfur dioxide, and relates the morphology of the corrosion deposits to electrical contact behavior. In contrast to the spreading of thin sulfide films over gold-plated silver, the nickel salts are present mainly as discrete mounds, localized at the pore sites. The importance of humidity was determined and explained on the basis of the galvanic mechanism of S02-induced corrosion."
"This paper suggests how tarnish-resistant contact material may be obtained. Of particular interest are those alloys made up of transition and nontransition metals that are able to resist corrosive gases and inhibit the formation of organic polymers. Such alloys can be identified by their physical properties, for example, magnetic susceptibility. The d electronic bands of transition metals are not normally entirely filled, having high magnetic susceptibility. Therefore, those contact materials, especially of the platinum family, cause the formation of organic polymers. When metals such as silver, copper, tin, and antimony are added to these metals, their valence electrons in the high-energy bands, which cause them to corrode, are absorbed into the unfilled d bands of transition metals. It follows that the alloys made up of transition and nontransition metals are inactive for both corrosive gases and unsaturated organic vapors at a composition that loses high magnetic susceptibility. This inactivity is also experimentally verified for palladium alloys."
"The problem of designing helical resonators for use in constant-bandwidth tunable filters from VHF through UHF frequencies is approached from two different viewpoints and the conclusions are verified by experimental results."
"This paper concerns vacuum-deposited resistive films for possible use in circuits that require low-temperature-coefficient components. Films were deposited by both ordinary and \"flash\" techniques from an alloy of Ni, Cr, Cu, and Al with a bulk TCR of &plusmn5 ppm/°C. The nonflash experiments showed that the film TCR's varied from + 250 ppm/°C for a film Ni/Cr ratio of 1.3 to +20 ppm/ °C for a ratio of 3.4. Films deposited onto borosilicate glass were more stable than those deposited onto soda-lime glass. The composition for the nonflash films was not as reproducible as that for the flash-deposited films. The latter were characterized by negative TCR's for resistances higher than 100\\Omega/\\Box$^b$. The flash technique was of the particle-by-particle type that resulted in films having appreciable amounts of entrapped gases. Vacuum baking of these gas-laden films decreased the values of resistance and the absolute values of TCR."
"Emission in the near ultraviolet from transient arcs between gold electrodes breaking resistive circuits carrying currents in the range 0.8-1.75 amperes was studied. Analysis of the intensities of the AuI lines was carried out in terms of a model involving two distinct zones, a relatively large zone at\\sim6000°K (the positive column) and a zone at an apparent temperature of\\sim23 000°K (identified with a region close to the cathode surface), which is 34 orders of magnitude smaller in volume. There is intense emission from the second positive system of N2. Analysis of the rotational fine structure of the (0, 0) band also yields a temperature of\\sim6000°K. Estimation of the electron density (\\sim3 X 1014cm-3) and the assumption of thermal equilibrium in the positive column allows one to calculate (N+/ N0)Au= 3 X 10-2from Saha's equation. From this it follows that the relative vapor pressure of gold in the positive column is\\sim0.0025 atmosphere, assuming electroneutrality in the plasma. An estimate based on simple gaskinetic considerations of the loss of gold atoms from the plasma column to the surrounding atmosphere and to the anode is within a factor of 4 of the loss observed in practice."
"Studies of the tarnishing of the Au-Ag, Au-Cu, Pd--Ag, and Pd-Cu systems revealed that film formation was controlled by diffusion either in the surface film or in the near-surface region of the alloy. Tarnishing of the silver-containing alloys is controlled by alloy diffusion, which can be described as a two-stage process. Initially, all alloys tarnish at nearly a linear rate characteristic of the pure reactive element. Beyond a transition thickness, the alloys tarnish according to a cubic-rate law. The rate-controUing mechanism associated with the simple cubic rate was identified as \"short-circuit\" diffusion via dislocations and/or'\"grain boundaries. The two tarnish Charactefistics of an alloy such as Au-Ag were shown to be greatly affected by the surface metallurgical condition."
"When contacts interrupt the current path to an inductive load, the resulting voltage surge produces effects that can be detrimental to performance of the system. The high and often oscillatory voltages can cause both radiation interference and voltage breakdown in the wiring, in associated components, or in the contact gaps themselves where the resulting arcs lead to contact erosion. Some general quantitative relationships between these voltages and the important parameters of the contact and of the local circuit are derived and discussed. The resulting equations are then applied specifically to the case where the load is an unprotected relay coil, with discussion of peak voltages, time to reach peak, and energy content that is available to be dissipated outside the coil terminals as, for example, in contact arcs. Experimental confirmation is also demonstrated."
"The totalizer performs many of the logic functions in handling a call from a public telephone set. It registers the denomination of the coin deposited and pulses appropriate signals back to the central office by transferring four sets of contacts, which are operated by a falling coin. The energy available from the coin is quite low, so contact force and cam rise of the switches must be kept low. Satisfactory operation of the contacts is essential to reliable service from the telephone. Public telephones are subjected to extreme environments, and early trials indicated contact contamination might cause the totalizer to fail to meet desired performance levels. The contact design was reviewed from three aspects: analysis of field failures, analytical investigation of design parameters, and laboratory testing to establish relative reliability figures. Considerations leading to the adoption of a brush of four precious-metal wire contacts as the design to be used in production are summarized."
"There is at present no satisfactory material available that can comply with all three of the most important criteria of a make-break spring contact, i.e. good spring properties, switching capability, and contact-resistance stability. As the result of a development program, a monolithic contact-spring material, composed of an age-hardening silver-palladium-copper alloy that satisfied these criteria was devised. The background theory and the melting, fabrication, and testing of the alloy are described. Its performance in actual relay applications and anticipated improvements are also given."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An analysis of two-dimensional radiation from apertures in perfectly conducting cylinders of arbitrary cross section is given. Solutions are expressed in terms of generalized network parameters, obtained by applying moment methods to the superposition integral equation. Formulas are given for current distributions, self- and mutual admittances, and radiation patterns. Representative computations are included to illustrate the theory."
"Results of an exhaustive experimental study of the effect of conducting grills on theE-plane radiation patterns ofE-plane sectoral horns are presented. It is observed that the grills satisfying certain optimum conditions are capable of focusing the patterns with considerable improvement in beamwidth and directive gain. The impedance conditions are also improved by the presence of the grills. Data for a number of horns operating at a wide range of frequencies are presented."
"The wedge-diffraction theory in combination with the creeping wave theory is used to compute the radiation pattern of an axial slot on a circular conducting cylinder. The slot is excited by a parallel-plate waveguide operating in the TEM-mode. The total field in the \"lit\" region is obtained by the superposition of the wedge-diffracted and creeping wave fields. The total field in the \"shadow\" region is obtained solely from the creeping wave contribution."
"The complete electric field of an aperture, with uniform excitation, in an infinite plane is derived and studied."
"A cross LPD array antenna on a conducting cone has been designed and tested. The frequency-independent characteristics of the LPD array antenna were maintained by coinciding the virtual tip of the LPD array and that of the conducting cone. It was found that the radiation pattern and the input impedance of this antenna are not significantly deteriorated by the presence of the conducting cone."
"Significant scattering from the tip of a finite cone viewed at rear aspect angles has previously been reported. The observed return from the far end of the target is largest for horizontal polarization at near grazing angles of incidence. The contribution to the tip return arising from direct diffraction is obtained by consideration of scattering from a slender semi-infinite cone. Comparison of these results with experiment then provides information on the effect of traveling-wave contributions to the tip return."
"A field test program conducted to determine the short-and long-term fading characteristics and atmospheric absorption effects on an overwater millimeter-wave transmission path is described. A 6.1-nautical-mile overwater link was established using a 53-GHz transmitting frequency. Low grazing angles were used with antenna heights of 15 to 30 feet above sea level. The results of the program indicate 1) that short-term fading is Rayleigh distributed in the severest cases and is caused by surface reflections, and 2) that long-term fading variations occur more frequently and with greater intensity during warm weather periods."
"Power transmission efficiency between the two circular antennas in the Fresnel region is obtained. They have Gaussian amplitude illuminations and nonconfocal phase illuminations. The efficiency for various phase illuminations and the Fresnel numbers is evaluated numerically."
"The statistical properties of the electromagnetic field diffracted by a plane aperture illuminated by a fluctuating field have been studied in the Fresnel zone on the basis of the theory of partial coherence. The average power distribution and the amplitude and phase of the degree of coherence have been computed for several coherence lengths of the illuminating field ranging from 1/4 to 5 times the dimension of the aperture and for two geometries of the observation points. The obtained results indicate the limits of validity of the often assumed hypothesis of spatial stationarity and of the real Gaussian approximation for the degree of coherence of the diffracted field. It turns out also that the optimum position of a receiving phase-sensitive system placed in the field diffracted by an aperture may not be the focus of the aperture, since there the concentration of average power density is accompanied by a poor coherence of the field."
"A solution is given for the radiation fields due to a current sustained in an elliptic ring of arbitrary dimensions. Although the case examined is that of a constant current, the study can serve as the basic formalism by which other distributions may be treated. The derived results apply directly to the elliptical capacitive antenna and the elliptical annular slot."
"Self-steered retrodirective arrays using a phase synthesizer are described. The array configuration permits combining of the signals from the individual elements at IF level. The performance of this array in noise is analyzed and compared with another type of self-steered array."
"An experimental and theoretical study of closely spaced collinear coupled waveguides radiating through a common perfectly conducting ground plane is described. The problem is formulated as a set of simultaneous integral equations and solved approximately by expanding the aperture field in a Fourier series. The special case of a single isolated waveguide is treated first, and the results are compared with experiment as well as with the approximate results of Lewin. Attention is given to the edge singularities. The more general case of two collinear coupled waveguide slots is solved by the same numerical method using the symmetrical properties of the geometry. Phase and amplitude of the mutual coupling are evaluated and compared with experiment. Agreement is excellent."
"The results of several studies on network models of log-periodic structures are described. A nonuniform, continuously scaled transmission line is introduced to simulate the near-field behavior of the log-periodic dipole array. The frequency-independent performance of the continuously scaled line represents the ideal, which is approximated by using lumped elements in a log-periodic structure. It is particularly significant to note that 1) the continuously scaled model predicts the observed input impedance behavior of log-periodic dipole arrays even when the frequency is approaching the high-frequency limit of the antenna, 2) phase velocity on the transmission line model in the active region and at the input region is also found to agree with experimental data, 3) increasing theQof the loading element increases the coupling to the reflected wave, resulting in increased variations of impedance. Decreasing the angle of taper of the antenna will compensate for the increase inQ. Based on this model, it is shown that true size reduction may be achieved only at the expense of efficiency."
"A method of analyzing Yagi-Uda-type antennas is presented. Since the Yagi-Uda array is a fairly well-known antenna, it is used as an example to demonstrate the application and accuracy of the method. However, the method of solution is not limited to a planar array, such as the Yagi, but can be applied to arrays of nonplanar linear elements. The approach taken in analyzing Yagi-Uda antennas is based on rigorous equations for the electric field radiated by the elements in the array. All interactions are taken into account. Calculated results are presented for the Yagi-Uda array that show excellent agreement with experimental results reported in the literature. In addition, the dependence of the far-field patterns on the phase velocity is shown. It is also demonstrated that the phase velocity is generally nonuniform along the array."
"In order to install as many radiating circuits as possible in a given area, consideration has to be given to the operation of antennas in proximity to one another. Therefore, mutual coupling between two nested rhombics and the effect of one rhombic on the radiation pattern of the other were measured. For a ratio of antenna sizes of 2 to 1, the presence of either a coplanar or noncoplanar antenna had no influence on the gain and radiation pattern of the reference rhombic. To determine the minimum acceptable separation, measurements were extended to include rhombics almost equal in size and as close as practicable to each other. For wire separations of0.5\\lambdathe gain of the reference rhombic was reduced by 0.5 dB. For0.2\\lambdaseparation the gain was reduced by 1 dB, and for0.04\\lambdait was reduced by approximately 4 dB. Except for very close spacings, the radiation patterns remained substantially unchanged. Mutual coupling, expressed as transmission loss between the antennas in decibels, varied between -15 and -41 dB."
"The admittance of a TEM mode-excited parallel-plate aperture having an infinite flange and illuminating a displaced dielectric boundary is determined by the variational method. The results are applied to provide insight into the following two problems of interest: 1) the effect of an air gap on the admittance of dielectric-coated aperture antennas, and 2) the admittance of an aperture antenna coated with an underdense plasma slab. Numerical computations for the air-gap problem are verified experimentally."
"A method is described for calculating the patterns of leaky waveguides radiated from the aperture in the metal wall of a waveguide with a rectangular cross section, the waveguide and the aperture being assumed of infinite length along the axis, the tangential components of the electric field on the aperture being assumed to have been prescribed. This method is accomplished by substituting a well approved elliptic cylinder for a boundary with a rectangular cross section. Measurements have been made for the leakyHguide to verify the accuracy of this method."
"The propagation of a transient electromagnetic field through a cold, isotropic, lossless, inhomogeneous plasma is considered. The electron density of the plasma decreases exponentially in the direction of propagation. For incident transient signals whose Laplace transforms are regular at infinity and whose only singularities are poles, the transient electric field propagated through the plasma can be expressed as a sum of exponential waves at discrete complex frequencies. The characteristic frequencies of the inhomogeneous plasma are related to the zeros of the modified Bessel function of the first kind of fixed argument and variable order. When the Laplace transform of the incident signal is not well-behaved at infinity, approximate methods may be used to evaluate the transient electric field. The propagation of a step sine wave and of a quasi-monochromatic Gaussian pulse are considered. It is found that for plasmas characteristic of reentry boundary layers, the effect of the plasma layer on dispersion is very small. The principal effect of the layer is to attenuate a signal propagated through it."
"A versatile vertical antenna array and receiving system have been developed for measuring relative phase and amplitude along the wavefront of anS-band transhorizon signal. The array, which operates at 3.200 GHz, consists of 12 parabolic antennas 1.22 meters (4 feet) in diameter which are spaced 1.39 meters apart on a tower for a total effective vertical aperture of 15.24 meters (162 \\lambda). The raw data outputs from the array are amplitude and differential phase successively sampled from the 12 elements. Data can be taken at variable rates of up to 100 passes per second over the 12 elements. The data are processed in a computer to form conventional uniformly illuminated array beams 0.3 degree wide with a grating lobe spacing of 3.9 degrees or to produce many combinations of correlation functions. A reference signal is used to cancel the effects of relative motion of the array support structure from the phase data. The array and receiving system and actual performance characteristics are described."
"Superposition is used to obtain expressions for the field of a line source with piecewise-sinusoidal current distribution which are rigorous even in the near zone, despite their simplicity"
"This communication presents results on the scattering from thin wire loops for various conditions of impedance loading. The effect of positive and negative resistors combined with reactive networks is considered."
"It is shown how rapidly convergent series developments may be obtained for the transmission coefficients of elliptical and rectangular apertures."
"Ionospheric electron content gradients are obtained from Faraday rotation observations of near simultaneous passages of the crossed-path radio beacon satellites BE-B and BE-C. Bearing deviation of an HF signal computed from the content gradient information is compared with simultaneously measured values in a radio direction finding experiment."
"Scattering of a plane wave by a conducting frustum is treated by geometrical diffraction theory. Formulas appropriate for calculating the scattering matrix as a function of frequency, aspect angle, and bistatic angle are presented. Calculations for two frustums are in very good agreement with bistatic measurement data."
"Analytical expressions obtained from electromagnetic field theory are used to plot propagated ray paths as functions of frequency and launch angle. From these plots the dispersive effects are predicted for signals transmitted between any two selected points."
"This communication presents an integral representation for the Wiener-Hopf factorization of a class of functions of a complex variable in a form convenient for numerical processing. The representation is particularly suitable for radiation problems involving open waveguides or surface wave structures excited by waveguides when the waveguide dimensions are comparable to the wavelength."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The radiation field produced by a parasitic loop counterpoise antenna is investigated. This is a new antenna configuration which consists of a small circular loop in the presence of a large parasitic loop and is placed above a circular ground plane or counterpoise. Geometrical theory of diffraction is applied to obtain the theoretical expressions for the far field produced by such an antenna. Within the range of approximation the agreement between theory and experiment has been found to be very good. The introduction of a parasitic loop, in general, reduces the ground plane edge diffraction effects on the far-field patterns and makes the overall pattern in the half-plane above the counterpoise less directional. Possible application of the antenna is also discussed."
"The structure consisting of a horizontal electric dipole above a grounded dielectric slab is examined, primarily from the standpoint of power distribution among the two power-carrying wave components, i.e., surface and space waves. It is shown that surface wave propagation is always in the form of two distinct modes characterized by the same cutoff properties. Also, surface wave excitation efficiency curves are given for a range of parameter variation."
"The high-frequency backscattering characteristics of an infinite conducting cylinder enveloped in a radially inhomogeneous plasma sheath are studied in detail. When the permittivity of the sheath has a general power-law dependence,\\epsilon(\\rho) = \\epsilon(\\rho_{0}) (\\rho/\\rho_{0})^{p}, where\\rho_{0}is the outer radius of the sheath andpis any real number\\neq -2, the wave function in the plasma is expressible in terms of Bessel functions of a fractional order. The slowly convergent series form of the backscattering coefficient is first recast into an integral by means of the Watson transformation, which is then asymptotically evaluated by the method of stationary phase. The mathematical result is conveniently interpreted in terms of geometrical optics by identifying the contributions due to the central ray and the trapped \"interrupted\" and \"uninterrupted\" rays. In contrast to the rather unpredictable and violent backscattering coefficient variations with frequency when a conducting cylinder is clad in a homogeneous plasma sleeve, the change in the coefficient for the same cylinder enveloped in a plasma sheath with a power-law radial inhomogeneity is much more smooth and, in most cases, the approximate locations of the maximums and minimums can be predicted. Numerical results showing the dependence of the backscattering coefficient on the type of power-law inhomogeneity, sheath thickness, and permittivity level are presented in graphical form."
"The present discussion is concerned with the study of transient phenomena due to localized sources in a bounded dispersive medium, with emphasis on the propagation of surface waves. To accommodate these features, the configuration of a magnetic line source parallel to the gyrotropic axis in a cold magnetoplasma has been chosen, with a perfectly conducting plane providing the bounding surface. After a formulation of the solution in integral form, the asymptotic considerations in Part I of this paper are applied for calculation of the transient behavior of the incident, reflected, and surface wave constituents. Properties of these source-excited waves are discussed and are compared with the corresponding response to plane wave excitation. By comparison with an exact solution, some observations are made concerning the accuracy of the asymptotic approximations."
"An approximate method for numerically calculating the scattered field of a linear array of center-loaded cylindrical elements illuminated by a plane wave incident in theHplane of the array is described. To illustrate the use of the approximation technique, theH-plane scattered field of an eight-element model array is calculated for various conditions of impedance loading and illumination. From extensive calculations, it is found that theHplane scattered field of the array can be represented approximately by the product of the electric field scattered in the reflected direction and an interference factor. The interference factor is the equivalent of the complex array factor of the model array when excited with uniform amplitude and an element-to-element phase progression proportional to the sine of the angle of incidence of the illumination."
"The asymptotic evaluation of complex frequency integrals arising in the theory of radiation from transient sources in dispersive media is reviewed and extended to accommodate phenomena observed at distant observation points at any observation time. Helpful graphical methods are emphasized and illustrated for a plasma medium discussed in detail in Part II of this paper. Results are interpreted in terms of space-time rays whose properties are reviewed, and these rays, together with the (k, \\omega) dispersion surfaces for the medium, are utilized for the study of reflection and refraction processes at an interface."
"High-frequency scattering by a finite perfectly conducting right-circular cone is analyzed by modifying geometrical diffraction theory for application at and near nose-on aspects. Formulas appropriate for predicting principal-polarization radar cross sections as functions of frequency and aspect angle are presented. Calculations on a cone are in very good agreement with monostatic measurement data in the limited aspect interval0 \\leq \\phi \\leq \\gamma, where\\gamma, is the half-angle of the cone."
"A television array driven by a shorted section of transmission line is investigated theoretically and experimentally. The dipole elements are all parasitic and magnetically coupled to the driving line. Matching to practically any impedance is possible, radiation pattern and input impedance can be controlled independently, and design flexibility is gained."
"Previous work indicates that although accurate predictions are generally obtained from the geometrical theory of diffraction for cylinders and frustums, scattering from the rear edges of these bodies is sometimes poorly predicted. A new formulation provides satisfactory results for a cylinder, but conical bodies require further work."
"From an experimental investigation of the foil-type kind of a conical, logarithmic spiral antenna, the relative phase velocity along the antenna arm as a function of the cone angle has been found. It is probable that a reduction of the antenna length by one half can be achieved by using a special dielectric loading."
"An earlier analysis of the field structure and energy flow near the axis of any circularly symmetric focusing reflector is applied to the case of a spherical reflector. From the results an estimate is made of the attainable efficiency of corrugated-waveguide aperture-type feeds."
"The TEM mode reflection coefficient is analyzed for a symmetric parallel-plate waveguide composed of adjacent conducting wedges and radiating into a perfectly reflecting sheet oriented normal to the guide axis. Using the wedge diffraction method, the reflection from the conducting sheet is treated in terms of successive contributions or bounces that describe the interacting waves between the waveguide wedges and the reflecting sheet. For guides with small wedge angles (less than 75 degrees), the interacting waves can be treated as plane waves, and thus the reflection coefficient can be obtained through what is referred to as the self-consistent procedure. For guides with large wedge angles each of the interacting bounce waves can be resolved into component cylindrical waves. The total reflection from the sheet is then obtained by summing these iterative contributions. Calculated results from this analysis are in good agreement with measurements."
"The principle of the periodic receiving antenna array composed of arbitrary antenna units has been developed. A generalization of the well-known principle of log-periodic antennas is presented and applied also to antenna units formed by the system of dipoles with active networks. This reveals the potentialities for the exploitation of this principle in the miniaturization of directional antenna systems."
"An exact integral equation for a cylindrical antenna having a finite gap at the driving point is presented. By including the integrals of both the electric and magnetic currents flowing at the gap, the external current of the tubular antenna can be calculated separately from the internal current."
"Two families of spherically symmetric dielectric lenses are considered. Their optical properties are studied, and the radial eigenfunctions describing the electromagnetic field inside the lenses are found in terms of hypergeometric functions. Among the members of these two families are the Luneburg lens, the Maxwell fisheye, the isotropic lens of Eaton, and a lens that behaves like a metal reflector."
"A new method is presented for designing arrays of parallel wire antennas. The method relates a desired pattern with required feed voltages such that mutual coupling is taken into account in the design procedure. The technique uses matrix methods together with results of the \"Method of Moments\" to determine the self- and mutual impedances and the required excitations. The design method can be applied to circular, elliptical, and other planar arrays although attention is restricted here to linear arrays. The feed points and the array geometry must be specified."
"Describes a simple mechanical way of moving a model target during laboratory measurements of radar cross section to simulate the precession motion of a satellite or reentry vehicle. The value of the simulation lies in the speed with which it can be accomplished and in its use as a diagnostic tool to aid the analysis of typical signature data"
"An approximate transform for the surface current induced on an infinite wedge is presented. The transform readily allows the investigation of the pulse response of a large class of cylindrical structures of general polygonal cross section. The results for the polarization of the excitation both parallel and normal to the axis of the infinite wedge are presented."
"A theoretical and experimental study is made on the wide-band minimization of backscattering from a thin cylinder with a purely reactive central loading. It is concluded that relatively wide minimization bandwidths can be achieved by implementing the reactance loading by a coaxial cavity of high characteristic impedance."
"Electromagnetic radiation from a slot-excited ground plane covered by a plasma layer with exponentially decreasing electron density is considered. It is found that the far-field radiation pattern is simply related to that found for the case where the layer is absent."
"In ship-to-ship detectability studies it is important to have a method of estimating oversea radar range distribution. Through the integration of meteorological theory and mode propagation theory, a procedure has been evolved for estimating oversea radar ranges which are found to have excellent agreement with the limited experimental data."
"A numerical technique for evaluation of the geometrical optics radar cross section of a general doubly curved convex conducting body is described. A surface-fitting method is employed where unique surfaces are established utilizing the Schmidt orthogonalization technique for matrix inversion. In this manner linearly dependent data points are discarded prior to their inclusion in the surface-fitting procedure."
"Propagation in the earth-ionosphere waveguide is considered for the situation where the earth's boundary has an abrupt change in the surface impedance. The formulation, which utilizes medal analysis, includes the effect of the usually ignored reflected modes. It is demonstrated, however, that these may be neglected in most practical situations even when the surface impedance contrast is large. The relationship with an earlier integral equation approach to the problem is pointed out."
"The active admittance, the realized gain, and the degradation of the nominally linear polarization versus the scan angle are determined for an infinite periodic array of circular apertures by resorting to the modal analysis of the discontinuity between the element waveguide and the periodic waveguide which constitutes the radiation half-space. An array of elements in a triangular arrangement is treated as an application, and the numerical results are compared with those obtained through the grating lobe series, i.e., assuming an aperture transverse electric field distribution invariant with scan."
"The improvement in signal-to-noise ratio at the output of an aperture antenna over that of an isotropic point detector placed in additive independent random signal and noise fields is found in terms of the correlation functions of the fields and illustrated for some typical cases."
"The cylindrical antenna, driven at its center by some transient voltage source and symmetrically loaded with lumped resistors, has been found to be a useful electromagnetic pulse generator. In this study a synthesis procedure was developed that yields the resistor values required to load the antenna so that, when an appropriate causal voltage source is applied to the center terminals of the antenna, the radiated electric field transient will approximate some prescribed fast-rising generally decaying function of time."
"An integral equation for a multielement antenna having finite gaps at the driving points is derived. An approximation of this equation is calculated on the assumption that the gap capacities are negligible as is the case with ordinary antennas, and it is used to explain the stationary property of the input impedance. If the electric current distribution is expressed by the sum of a number of trial functions, the equation for determining the coefficients of the functions is found from this condition for the stationary properties. This equation is an improvement of the circuit equation for antennas written in terms of self- and mutual impedances defined by the EMF method. The mutual impedance is affected by all antenna elements. The trial functions for the electric current distribution must be smooth near the driving points and must be approximately constant within the gap. Numerical calculations on a circular array consisting of five full-wavelength cylindrical antenna elements are shown to verify the usefulness of the improved theory."
"An analysis theory of the shaped-beam doubly curved reflector antenna is described. The analysis computes the far-field patterns by calculating the current density distribution on the nonanalytic surface that the shaped-beam doubly curved reflector presents using the physical optics vector approximation. The presented theory utilizes a computer solution approach to achieve an accurate knowledge of the principal and cross-polarization elevation and azimuth patterns by numerically integrating the field contributions over the entire reflector surface. A comparison of the computed and measured principal plane patterns is shown."
"A leaky-wave antenna whose radiation pattern is uniform in circumference is made of double-sheath helices. The fundamental characteristics of this antenna are discussed theoretically and experimentally. A method which produces a tapered field along its aperture to effect reduced sidelobe level, and the relationship between the dielectric supporter for the sheath helices and the wavenumber are also discussed."
"The residue series representation of the fields for an azimuthal leaky-wave antenna on a conducting cylinder is studied. It is shown that the zeroth term corresponds to the case of an omnidirectional antenna, it being understood that omnidirectional refers to the azimuthal plane only. For each term of the residue series, it is shown that two regions exist for the radiation fields in the elevation plane. Within one region, the fields exhibit the characteristic of real rays, while in the other, the fields are that of diffracted rays. If the radius of the cylinder is allowed to increase to infinity, such that the cylindrical surface approaches a plane surface, only the region in which the real rays exist remains. The existence of the two regions in the cylindrical case is, therefore, attributed to the curvature of the surface. It is shown that the boundary between these two regions forms a hyperboloid of one sheet and that, in the far field, it approaches a conical surface about the cylindrical axis. An omnidirectional antenna was designed and constructed. The radiation patterns show good agreement with theoretical predictions."
"Experimental results are presented demonstrating the electrical characteristics of a cylindrical antenna loaded with capacitive elements whose reactance increases exponentially with the distance from the feed end. The results show that the antenna reported has good broadband characteristics. One of the antennas yielded radiation pattern constancy over a 3:1 bandwidth with VSWR varation of less than 3:1 with respect to 50 ohms. For impedance constancy only, a model has achieved greater than 10:1 bandwidth. Qualitative design considerations to achieve required broadband characteristics are included. Finally, the approximate current distribution along the antenna is obtained theoretically, and it is predicted that the current decays very rapidly toward the free end when the loading is sufficiently large. Experimental results are presented in order to confirm the theoretical prediction."
"The relative merits of T- and cross-type radio telescopes are discussed. A large array used for radio astronomical studies at a frequency of 22.25 MHz (\\lambda = 13.5m) is described. It is built in the form of a T with dimensions96\\lambda \\times 2.5\\lambdaeast-west and32.5\\lambda \\times 4\\lambdanorth-south. The 624 full-wave dipoles are mounted\\lambda/8above a 65 000 m2reflecting screen. The instrument has a pencil-beam response of1.1 \\times 1.7degrees at the zenith. A timesharing technique is used to provide simultaneous observations of 5 adjacent declinations spaced at quarter-beamwidth intervals. Observations, commenced in 1965, should provide flux density measures for 400-500 radio sources down to a limiting flux density of about30 \\times 10^{-26}W .m-2Hz-1. A map of the galactic background radiation from declination +90 to -20 degrees is being prepared."
"An expression for the quality factor of an ideal antenna with both TE and TM modes excited is derived and applied to several special cases."
"An analysis is made of the radiation of an electron plasma wave from a circular-loop antenna with an arbitrary dimension immersed in a compressible plasma. The radiation resistance due to plasma-wave radiation is calculated and is compared with that due to electromagnetic-wave radiation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The communication studies the attenuation on grating lobes of uniformly spaced arrays under a double-sideband noise signal. With a narrow signal bandwidth the envelope of the lobe attenuation is approximately a second-order equation"
"A general method for solving the inverse diffraction problem is presented. It is based on an identity of Bojarski which states that\\gamma(x)and\\Gamma(p)are a Fourier transform pair. Here\\gamma(x)is the characteristic function of the target (\\gamma=1inside the target,\\gamma = 0outside),p = (2\\omega/c)J,\\omegais the frequency,Jis a unit vector specifying the aspect, and\\Gamma(P)can be obtained by measurement of the backscattered electromagnetic far field at frequency\\omega = (c/2)|P|and aspectJ=|p|^{-1}p. If data is obtained in any subsetDofpspace, the method yields partial or complete information about the target geometry. It is used to rederive earlier results very simply and to obtain a significant new solution, in which the target geometry is completely determined using frequencies only in a practical frequency band and aspects in a narrow cone."
"An approximate general solution for the electromagnetic backscattering by a perfectly conducting prolate spheroid is derived. The solution is obtained from an estimate of the solution to a transient scattering problem which is deduced, in part, from the known time-dependent backscattered waveform for a perfectly conducting sphere. From the analysis the echo signal as a function of the source frequency for arbitrary orientation of the spheroid and arbitrary linear polarization of the incident plane electromagnetic wave can be predicted in the resonance region. Calculated results for a 2:1 axial ratio spheroid are compared with experimental data for two principal polarizations and major axes ranging from 0.32 to 1.59 wavelengths."
"When a thick infinite cylinder is illuminated by a plane wave with a perpendicular electric field at normal incidence, its backscattering can be controlled by implementing an impedanced-backed longitudinal slot on its surface. An exact theory is developed to account for the scattered field from an impedance loaded slotted cylinder. Optimum slot loadings for minimizing and maximizing the backscattering from the cylinder are determined. A series of experiments has been conducted to verify the theory. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment is obtained. The present study indicates that a very effective reduction in the backscattering from the cylinder can be achieved by a proper design of the slot loading."
"An integral equation method is applied to calculation of the scattering from homogeneous dielectric rings. The fields in the rings are assumed to be independent of\\rhoandz. Excellent agreement between the calculated and experimental backscattering cross section is obtained for the case of an axially incident linearly polarized plane wave."
"Microwave reflector antennas are often analyzed by utilizing a loss-budget technique in which the gain degradations due to various perturbations are individually analyzed and then added together to yield a total antenna gain loss. The comprehensive analysis technique described shows that the loss-budget technique may yield erroneous results since it fails to take into account the possible interrelations of the perturbations."
"In order to be able to restrict grating lobes from real space with fewer radiating elements, the triangular rather than rectangular radiating element arrangement is frequently selected. The price is the admission to real space of grating-lobe quantization sidelobes."
"A method is presented for calculating the admittance of a short thin dipole antenna in a cold collisional magnetoplasma. The theory is quasi-static, and the results are slightly more accurate than in previous analyses. Numerical calculations of admittance as a function of frequency are presented for several different orientations of the dipole with respect to the magnetic field. For any orientation the calculations show that the plasma frequency and the upper hybrid frequency can be readily identified."
"The integral equations for infinite phased arrays have generally been constructed with complex nonsymmetric kernels. Nevertheless, it has been shown earlier that these nonsymmetric forms can generally be transformed into a complex-symmetric form with consequent stationary properties. It is shown here that the phased array must possess certain symmetry properties for the complex-symmetric form to exist."
"The plane-wave reflection of electromagnetic pulses from homogeneous and inhomogeneous layered media is discussed. Special attention is given to the case of total reflection which is characterized in the frequency domain by phase distortion without amplitude distortion. For this case it is shown that the waveform in the time domain undergoes a rather remarkable change."
"Monostatic radar cross-section (RCS) results for five- and eleven-wavelength straight wires are presented. The numerical RCS values which are obtained from solving Pocklington's integral equation for the induced current by collocation fall within 1 dB of the experimental measurements over all major lobes of the RCS pattern. The computer times required for the computations are 1.2 and 7.6 seconds for the five- and eleven-wavelength cases, respectively."
"The bistatic pattern of an active Van Atta array using mismatched bilateral amplifiers is derived for various amplifier reflection and transmission gains. Specific cases as the specular array or negative resistance interconnection are discussed, and in the latter case a \"blind angle\" phenomena is shown by an alternate derivation."
"The question has often been raised as to when the effects of imperfect conductivity must be taken into account when studying the echo area of a wire scatterer such as the dipole. The conditions under which the echo area is sensitive to the conductivity are shown."
"The wave equation for an electromagnetic wave in a two-stream magnetoplasma is derived, and the dispersion equations are found in particular cases."
"It is demonstrated that the admittance of thick tubular antennas can be accurately computed by using a ray-optical technique for finding the reflection from the end. The theory gives good results for a radius as small as 0.2 of a wavelength. The results are compared with a numerical solution by Chang [1]."
"The reflection coefficient (ratio of reflected to incident electric fields) is found at an arbitrary point within a plasma profile of exponentially tapered electron density and fixed collision frequency. To facilitate the analytical solution of the problem it is found advantageous to terminate the profile in a perfectly conducting plate. This artifice has little physical significance if the plate is positioned in the region of reflection, where the electromagnetic field is negligible. But there is some indeterminancy in locating this region. In the present analysis the plate is located at the level of electron density, where the magnitude of the complex relative dielectric constant passes through a minimum, or where the real dielectric constant goes through zero since in the region of these points the electromagnetic field is evanescent. Reflection factors for both plate locations are computed and compared. Evidently, when the plate is positioned at the lower electron density, the magnitude of the reflection coefficient is larger so that an upper bound on the size of the coefficient is established."
"It is proved that Sommerfeld's resolution of\\Pi, \\Pi=(\\Pi_{x},0,\\Pi_{z})for thexdirected dipole source in the classical dipole problem is not unique and is just one of four acceptable resolutions. A method is shown for analytically obtaining one such acceptable resolution, namely,\\Pi=(\\Pi_{x},\\Pi_{y},0). With this resolution, the geometrical optics results for the dipole problem are obtained."
"The bistatic scattering cross section of a reentry vehicle with wake of nonuniform axial conductivity is investigated using a simple model. For some typical physical parameters normalized radar cross sections are presented in tabular form for a reentry vehicle with wake of exponentially decreasing axial conductivity."
"The problem considered is the redirection of a time-varying signal from one specified point to another by a set of arbitrarily spaced antenna array elements. The necessary and sufficient condition for signal redirection is determined without restricting the analysis to a monochromatic signal. This condition, which involves time delays only, is valid for signal redirection in general and hence, in particular, for retrodirection. Once the condition for redirection is satisfied, the amplitude of the signal retransmitted from each array element can be chosen at will Proper adjustment of these amplitudes will maximize the amplitude of the redirected signal as received at the specified point. The appropriate criterion for maximization is derived. In addition, the problem of noise (undesired signal) generation due to errors in the time delays is considered."
"The coefficient of coupling\\eta, or the ratio of power transfer between two antennas closely spaced, is defined. A two-term asymptotic approximation for\\eta, valid for arbitrary aperture antennas, is derived. The asymptotic approximation is the leading part of an asymptotic series involving powers of1/Kd, whereKdis the separation distance between transmitter and receiver measured in wavelengths. The first term of the asymptotic approximation for\\etais the usual Friis formula for power transfer between antennas spaced far apart. The second term in the approximation represents a correction term due to effects associated with the finite spacing between antennas. For test cases the on-axis Fresnel region fields of several aperture antennas are computed using the asymptotic approximation. In turn, the gain reduction factor\\gammawhich is the ratio of Fresnel region gain to far-field gain of an aperture, is computed for each example. These results are compared with exact expressions previously presented in the literature, and close agreement is noted. Also, a means of measuring the far field of a large-aperture antenna with a probe in its Fresnel region is suggested."
"The fields diffracted by a body made up of finite axially symmetric cone frustums are obtained using the concepts of the geometrical theory of diffraction. The backscattered field for plane-wave incidence on such a target is obtained with particular emphasis on those regions that are usually avoided, namely, the caustic region and its immediate vicinity. The method makes use of equivalent electric and magnetic current sources which are incorporated in the geometrical theory of diffraction. This solution is such that it is readily incorporated in a general computer program, rather than requiring that a new program be written for each shape. Several results, such as the cone, the cylinder and the conically capped cylinder, are given. In addition, the method is readily applied to antenna problems. An example which is reported consists of the radiation by a stub over a circular ground plane. This present theory yields quite good agreement with experimental results reported by Lopez, whereas the original theory given by Lopez is in error by as much as 10 dB."
"A surface integration technique is presented which extends the usefulness of high-frequency diffraction methods. This technique is used in conjunction with wedge-diffraction theory to analyze the TEM radiation patterns of parallel-plate waveguides. The surface integral is obtained by Green's second identity. The fields on the surface are calculated by the wedge-diffraction method. This technique provides an improvement in the accuracy of the pattern as compared to the wedge-diffraction method."
"The results of an experimental study, dealing with the coherent detection of an optical signal after propagation over a 2.6-km atmospheric path, are presented. The average receiver output power was measured at the intermediate frequency for various receiving aperture diameters. The measured values were compared with predicted values calculated on the basis of no atmospheric degradations. The asymptotic approach of the received signal-to-noise ratio to a constant value for increasing aperture diameters is demonstrated and shown to be due to the turbulence in the propagation path. Typical values of the spatial coherence area are discussed."
"Layers with equivalent refractive indices less than unity behave as angular low-pass spatial filters for plane waves. The layers are also capable of supporting leaky waves. The way these properties may be employed in the design of a passive multiple-beam antenna is indicated."
"The absorption characteristics of the earth's atmosphere in the 183-325 GHz frequency region of the electromagnetic spectrum are investigated. Instrumentation problems associated with coherent radiometric detection dictated the use of a wide-band Germanium bolometer detector. Upon helium cooling the Germanium element to4.2\\degK the bolometer was observed to have a noise equivalent power of10^{-9}watts for a 1-Hz bandwidth. Using the sun at two zenith angles as the signal source, measurements were made of the solar radiation as seen at the earth's surface through a set of wire mesh bandpass filters. The filters' transmission responses were determined by scaling the results of 109 GHz measurements. The total zenith atmospheric attenuation was then obtained as a function of frequency through the use of a spectral zonvolution technique. The results, especially in the window between the 183 and 325 GHz water vapor lines, seem to agree favorably with the calculated values made according to the Van Vleck-Weisskopf equations modified by the Schulze-Tolbert line-shape factor [1]. The minimum attenuation in the region was measured to be 0.6 dB/g.m3of surface water vapor density at 240 GHz."
"General relations are developed for the classical scattering of plane electromagnetic waves in the first Born approximation from the turbulent fluctuations in the electron density of a weakly ionized, finite volume, arbitrarily shaped plasma. By finite volume we mean that the correlation length of the turbulence can be arbitrary compared to the dimensions of the plasma. Former work applies only to the case of small correlation lengths. The transmitter for the incident and the receiver for the scattered radiation are assumed to be in the far field of the scattering plasma. Scattering relations for a one-dimensional plasma are presented in order to point out simply the differences between the large and small correlation length cases. The general scattering relations are specialized for a parallelpiped plasma with a Gaussian autocorrelation function. The resulting integral is solved on a computer. Results show that the scattered radiation can be much greater than that evaluated with the Booker-Gordon relation, when the correlation length is greater than the incident EM wavelength. The scattered radiation is equal to or less than the Booker-Gordon value when the EM wavelength is greater than the correlation length."
"The radiation pattern of an equally spaced spherical array is obtained experimentally and is compared with theoretical patterns obtained previously. Due to the great difficulty of exciting each element of the array, an incident plane wave was used to excite the array. A method to eliminate the incident plane wave on the measurements of the fields scattered by the array is discussed."
"The signals in VHF space communications fluctuate rapidly on the propagational path through the turbulent ionosphere, and fading is of Rayleigh distribution, if circularly polarized waves are received. The diversity effect on VHF communications between an earth station and a satellite in a stationary orbit is about 10 to 20 dB, where transmitted linearly polarized waves are received by the use of circular or linear polarization diversity, when fading exists. The polarization diversity reception is effective in diminishing the time when signals fade out, and it will be one of the best methods for more reliable VHF space communications through the turbulent ionosphere."
"The experimental radiation patterns are measured for a0.4\\times0.9-inch slot antenna in the presence of aperture breakdown over a wide range of gas pressures and breakdown power levels. It was found that pattern distortion caused by the breakdown plasma was not very significant. The overall signal attenuation, however, could be extremely severe, particularly below 0.5 torr."
"The admittance of a rectangular aperture antenna, loaded with a dielectric plug, was previously formulated as a boundary-value problem [1], and the results are summarized. Calculations and supporting measurements show that a TE03mode can be strongly excited in the plug, resulting in a resonant perturbation of the admittance."
"It is shown that a long cylindrical antenna with multiple excitations can be made to have desirable current distributions along its structure when the driving voltages and the positions of the generators are properly chosen. Applications of this technique to practical problems are discussed."
"The sheath effects on the current distribution along a cylindrical antenna immersed in a plasma have been investigated in two respects: 1) the measurement and its interpretation of the current distribution of the antenna in the region off > f_{p}(f_{p}is plasma frequency) when its dc bias voltage is varied; 2) the observation and its interpretation of the slow-wave mode along the antenna in the region off < f_{p}/\\sqrt{2}."
"The radiation of the resonant, fractional-turn, quadrafilar helix is shown to be cardioid shaped and circularly polarized regardless of axial length and diameter. Measured and calculated data relate the radiation pattern characteristics and geometrical parameters."
"Ideas of spacecratt phased array configurations are described in this communication. The aperture of the phased array is 28.5 by 28.5 feet."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The use of a spin-stabilized communications satellite of large channel capacity requires a high-gain antenna which may be despun, mechanically or electronically, with respect to the satellite. The design of a mechanically despun antenna system for the Intelsat-III communications satellite is discussed. The communications signals utilize a high-gain directive antenna which is mechanically despun while an omnidirectional antenna is used for the telemetry information. Positional control of the directional antenna is provided by the control electronics subsystem such that the antenna is always pointed directly at the earth. Satellite-borne infrared earth sensors provide earth reference pulses to the control electronic subsystem for antenna despin stabilization and pointing. Also discussed is the bearing and lubrication system for the antenna drive assembly. In-orbit performance of the two systems launched is also given."
"The antenna system described is one of the experiments on NASAs ATS-III spin stabilized satellite that was launched on November 5, 1967. It was put into synchronous orbit shortly thereafter and has been operating satisfactorily since. Using a line source feed illuminating a parabolic cylindrical reflector, a linearly polarized gain over 17 dB is achieved. The antenna is positioned by means of a vernier type stepping motor-drive system that points the antenna beam towards earth within approximately\\pm0.7degree in accordance with instructions received on the satellite from the ground control station. Prior to launch, the antenna system was subjected to extensive qualification testing. Confidence in a desired five-year life in orbit for the motor-drive system was obtained by testing the lubrication system and bearings for 7800 hours at temperatures ranging from-80\\degF to+120\\degF at vacuum pressures as low as1 \\times 10^{-8}torr."
"Based on a modified expression for the radiation field of a circular array in a moving medium, pattern synthesis is performed for medium motion both in the direction of and parallel to the main beam. It is shown that medium motion, even considering only first-order effects, changes the synthesized patterns significantly. The required excitation amplitudes and phases for the proper synthesis of a 21-element circular array to yield a cosine-square pattern in a moving medium are given."
"An analysis is presented of overall aperture efficiency, weight, and control power requirements for hybrid matrix arrays in synchronous satellite applications. An array is described which is mounted on a 7-foot aperture in a triangular grid fashion and fed by a hybrid matrix consisting of 3-port building blocks which in turn are fed by 9-port matrices. The beam crossover loss is minimized by beam combining at the outputs of the 9 ports. Component losses are analyzed, and residual array gains are calculated for the 7-foot aperture as a function of operating frequency. It is concluded that arrays of this type are practical for net gains of up to 30 dB."
"The effects of the ionized wake-of a Mars-entry capsule on radiation from a circularly polarized antenna operating at 400 and 2295 MHz are studied. The circularly polarized antenna is represented by a turnstile antenna\\lambda/4above a ground plane, while the ionized wake is approximated by a cylindrically stratified plasma consisting ofN-plasma regions. Integral expressions for the fields are obtained for the antenna located in the wake and are evaluated using saddle-point integration to yield the radiation patterns. Computed patterns for the two simplest configurationsN = 1andN = 2are presented. The radiation patterns for both near- and far-wake electron-density profiles develop a conical null region whose extent is proportional to the peak electron density in the wake. For the near-wake electron-density profile, sharp peaks which are attributable to leaky-wave radiation, appear within the null region of the patterns. The effect of the conical null region in the patterns is to prolong blackout time for communication cone angles that lie within the null region. There are no serious depolarization effects in the nonnull region and satisfactory communications can be carried out."
"The problems of a gap-excited finite-sized prolate spheroidal antenna, with and without a confocal prolate spheroidal vacuum sheath, operated in a uniform cold and in a uniform warm lossy plasma medium, have been considered by applying boundary value problem techniques. The dependence of the input admittance, the current distribution, and the radiation pattern, upon the collision frequency, the electron temperature, the length of the antenna, the length-to-radius ratio for the antenna, the ratio of the plasma frequency to the operating frequency, and the thickness of a vacuum sheath have been investigated. Admittance curves are given from which the input admittance of a finite linear antenna can be estimated for a wide range of operating conditions and length-to-radius ratios. Conductance and susceptance maxima, dependent upon the vacuum sheath thickness, have been observed when using the cold plasma model for\\omega < \\omega_{p}. When using the warm plasma model in conjunction with the boundary condition that the normal component of the fluid velocity is zero at the antenna surface and at the vacuum sheath surface, the radiation resistance of the antenna is increased significantly for the parameters considered."
"Antenna arrays with elements distributed at random in a three-dimensional space are studied. Arbitrary excitation and nonisotropic elements are considered. The distribution of the sidelobe level below a certain value for all directions of observation, as well as other probabilistic properties are determined approximately. These general results are then applied to circular and spherical arrays. In particular, for the latter case, conical log-spiral antennas are considered in some detail. It is found that for large arrays with high resolution, the required number of elements can be several orders of magnitude smaller than what is commonly required on the basis of one element per(\\lambda/2)^{2}Finally, a few experiments simulated by the Monte Carlo method were conducted and excellent agreements with theory have been found in all cases."
"The qualitative theory, design, and development of a parallel-plate waveguide-fed antenna, suitable for flush-mounted broad-band spacecraft applications, are presented. The antenna makes use of wedge-like metal posts placed uniformly about the periphery of the feed plates to provide both structural strength and practical interconnection routes for cables without disrupting the antenna impedance and patterns. Measurements taken on the antenna, which is mounted on spheroids up to 50 wavelengths in circumference, are presented; equatorial patterns are omnidirectional within\\pm 0.25dB, and polar patterns have beam widths similar to a half-wave dipole."
"The input impedance and the equatorial radiation patterns of a VHF cavity-backed cylindrical gap antenna are derived and compared with experiments. The experiments generally support the computations, provided that the gap dimension is neither larger than about 1/100 of a wavelength, nor so thin that mechanical tolerances in the feed design become important. The results show that the tuning, impedance bandwidth, and the radiation patterns of this antenna can be controlled very accurately by adjusting the internal radius and height of the cavity. Salient points of this antenna are its wide-band characteristics (10-percent bandwidth), its pattern circularity, and particularly the fact that it can be made an integral part of a space vehicle."
"Future space missions may require vehicles traveling at relativistic velocities. Consequently, relativistic effects will have to be considered in the development of future space communication systems. This paper presents a formulation of these relativistic communication effects which are not normally encountered by the designer. The gain function, power density available at the receiver and apparent frequency of the source can be greatly affected by the motion of the space craft antenna. In addition, the apparent direction of the space craft can be quite different from its actual direction for both the transmitting and receiving conditions. Formulations are presented by which these effects are described for an arbitrary antenna in terms of the antenna characteristics in its rest frame and the actual space craft location, a form that is convenient for the designer. In addition, numerical examples are shown to illustrate the magnitude of these relativistic effects."
"An antenna system is described for a spin-stabilized satellite with its axis normal to the orbital plane. Three antennas in a compact lightweight package comprise the antenna system: a switched-beamX-band transmitting antenna, an omnidirectionalX-band receiving antenna and an omnidirectional VHF telemetry antenna. The first is a cluster of eight circularly polarized horns pointed radially outward every 45 degrees about the spin axis. An eight-throw solid-state waveguide switch turns on that horn currently pointing most nearly to earth. This is accomplished by providing the switch with electrical signals from a logic circuit operating on information from earth sensors. The second antenna is a circularly polarized biconical horn located above the cluster of transmitting horns. Its sense of polarization is opposite that of the transmitting antenna, and a filter in the transmission line to the receiver insures the required isolation. The third antenna is obtained by feeding across the gap between the twoX-band antennas and exciting the external surfaces to radiate in a linearly polarized mode. Total weight of the three-antenna package is less than4\\frac{1}{2}pounds; it occupies a volume less than 10 inches square by 8 inches high above the top panel of the satellite."
"A deployable cross log periodic dipole (LPD) array on a conducting cone has been designed and tested at M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory as part of the RSP (Reentry Systems Program) flight program. This paper presents a brief mechanical description and an electrical performance of this LPD array. The electrical property of the antenna was fouud to be quite good within the frequency band designed. The ground test has indicated that the structure is able to deploy under a Nike-Hydac launch environment. The antenna has demonstrated a potential application to a space or missile body which may require a frequency-independent antenna in VHF-UHF band."
"Lincoln Laboratory has developed two circularly polarized VHF antenna systems for use on spin-stabilized satellites, Both are described, and test results are discussed. One is a low-gain (3-dB) antenna with omnidirectional coverage in the equatorial plane. The second is a high-gain (10-dB) antenna with a despun beam electronically scanned to always be Earth directed. Development of the component dipole and slot array elements is explained, and performance data are given for the final flight configuration."
"A space erectable truss antenna concept capable of deploying a rigid, lightweight (0.1 lb/ft2of aperture), parabolic reflector from 5 to 300 feet in diameter is discussed. A three-dimensional spring-loaded truss retracts into three optional packaging configurations, such that, a 100-foot diameter antenna can be packaged into a 10-foot payload envelope. Depth of the deployed antenna truss reduces thermal distortion enabling surface tolerance-to-diameter ratios less than2 \\times 10^{-4}to be achieved over the orbit. While the deployment is completely automatic, all functions can be supported by an astronaut. RF tests have been conducted on a 6-foot working model at 15 GHz with a peak gain frequency projected at 30 GHz."
"The equatorial radiation pattern of a parallel-plate TEM mode axial slot on an infinite cylinder of elliptical cross section is computed using wedge-diffraction and creeping-wave theory. The wedge-diffracted fields are obtained by the diffraction interaction from a set of infinite wedges approximating the parallel-plate-cylinder geometry. Surface-wave propagation on curved bodies commonly used in scattering is employed for the creeping-wave contribution. The total field in the lit region is approximated using superposition of wedge-diffracted and creeping-wave fields and in the shadow region solely by creeping-wave fields. The computed patterns are compared with experimental results since boundary-value solutions are not readily available. Good agreement between theory and experiment is indicated."
"The radiation and impedance characteristics of a spherically capped conic antenna protruding from a spherical vehicle are studied as a function of cone height, cone angle, and diameter of the vehicle. The conic antenna is excited by a gap at the cone base. The excitation is assumed rotationally symmetric. Considered in detail is the thin conical monopole extending from a sphere. The radiation patterns and antenna impedance referred to the base are calculated and compared with that of a cylindrical monopole over an infinite conducting plane."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A general theory of electromagnetic wave scattering is developed using the Stratton-Chu integral as modified by Silver for a gently undulating homogeneous surface on top of which small irregularities are superimposed. It is assumed that the tangent-plane approximation is applicable to the undulating surface so that the local fields can be evaluated by considering a slightly perturbed plane surface. Average powers, both polarized and depolarized, are calculated for the composite surface whose statistical properties are assumed known. Shadowing effects are also included before comparing with experimental results. The comparison between the moon data and the data obtained under laboratory conditions shows very good agreement. The same surface parameters are used for both the polarized and the depolarized returns. Previous theories cannot provide a connection between the parameters used in the polarized return expression and those in the corresponding depolarized expression since only a single-surface model was considered. The results indicate that polarized returns of near vertical incidence are dominated by the large-scale roughnesses, while the depolarized returns are affected by both the large and small roughnesses. As the incident angle increases, the effect of small irregularities becomes increasingly important for both the polarized and the depolarized returns. The cause of depolarization and diffuse scattering, as shown in this theory, is the perturbation of the fields on the surface by the small irregularities."
"The interaction of low-frequency electromagnetic waves propagating at an arbitrary angle to the static magnetic field with a nearly synchronous charged stream along the field in a cold plasma is analyzed. The temporal growth of the waves is found to increase with the signal frequency, the stream density, and the propagation angle off the field line. Explicit forms of maximum growth rate are derived for VLF and ELF waves, and a numerical example is given for a typical ionospheric plasma near the magnetic equator."
"It is shown that the basic reason why Kerr's physical optics formula for the reflectivity of an axially viewed perfectly conducting body of revolution is also useful when the wavelength is not small compared to body dimensions is because the electric dipole and the magnetic dipole plus electric quadrupole are the dominant multipole sources for reflection."
"The experimentally significant, long time transient response of a lossless anisotropic plasma to a short electromagnetic pulse is given. Natural oscillations asymptotically approach the plasma cutoff and resonance frequencies. In addition, complicated transient polarization effects are present in the response signal."
"Some preliminary work relating to the pulse radar return from ionized media, such as fireballs resulting from nuclear explosions and the wakes of high-speed reentry vehicles, is reported. In all cases the objective is to retrieve the envelope of the backscattered signal correctly related in time to the transmitted pulse."
"Obtains an expression for the radiation field as a function of the angular current density, the annular radius, and the angular coordinate"
"The geometrical optics technique is applied to obtain the reflected electric field from a perfectly conducting sphere coated with a special class of spherically inhomogeneous dielectrics. The result is compared to the second-order approximation which is obtained by asymptotic theory. Numerical computations of the percent error involved in computing the monostatic cross section using the geometrical optics solution instead of the higher order solution have been performed for50 \\leq ka \\leq 1000. Also, the effect of coating a perfectly conducting sphere with a radially inhomogeneous dielectric of the diverging or converging kind is discussed."
"It is shown that the results derived in a series of papers by K, Fränz in general represent upper bounds rather than exact expressions for the impedance characteristics of a class of dipole antennas with biconical input regions."
"An airplane navigation system based on the measurement, at very-high frequency, of the range between the aircraft and a geostationary satellite is under development by NASA. An examination is made of the errors resulting from the unknown propagation characteristics of the signal through the ionosphere. These errors are found to be a function of the distance between subaircraft and subsatellite points. At short distances unfavorable geometry causes small ranging errors to be translated into large position errors. As the distance increases, the errors become smaller, until a minimum is reached at some 5000 km. At even larger distances the errors again increase due to the greater path length of the signal in the ionosphere. Completely disregarding ionospheric effects leads to position errors of some 5 km at a 5000-km distance during the midday period near the solar cycle maximum. By using good predictions of the ionospheric electron content, it may be possible to reduce such errors to 1 km on a representative day. Since the errors are proportional to the columnar electron content, they become correspondingly smaller at night and decrease by, roughly, a factor of 3 during the sunspot minimum period."
"A discharge tube and facility for measuring the equatorial patterns of an axial slot antenna on a plasma covered cylinder are described. A Langmuir probe survey of the tube is made to determine axial, radial, and azimuthal variations of electron density. Experimental patterns made at various concentrations of electron density are obtained which closely resemble theoretical patterns for\\nu/\\omega \\cong 0.16. Absorption and dipole resonance predicted to occur at (\\omega_{p}/\\omega)^{2} \\simeq 1and 1.8, respectively, are experimentally observed."
"Radio refractive index profile measurements between 500 and 5000 feet were made over Bass Strait (Australia) during January and March 1966, using a microwave refractometer car-tied in a light aircraft. During these flights continuous radio propagation measurements at 173 MHz and 1.9 GHz were made over paths at points along which the profiles were measured. Supporting meteorological observations were also made. The measured refractive index profiles and associated weather conditions are described, and possible mechanisms to account for the observed relations between propagation behavior, refractive index, and meteorological data are discussed. The measurements show the progressive development of a strong superrefractive layer near 3000 feet, resulting from a subsidence inversion. This layer produced enhanced signals on the 173-MHz over-horizon radio path, due mostly to partial reflection at the layer and at some times possibly to trapping. Fading on the 1.9 GHz optical path probably resulted from trapping."
"The complete radiation field of a tubular monopole of arbitrary length and radius, which is base driven by a low-impedance coaxial transmission line, is derived. The integral equation for the current distribution, which includes a term for the feed-point correction is solved by the inversion of a matrix under the assumption that the current is a continuous, piecewise linear function. The far-zone electromagnetic field established by this current is expressed in closed form. It is found that the effect of thickness is to round off the nulls predicted by previous theory for vanishingly small radius and to enhance the high-angle radiation."
"A wide cone-angle conical spiral antenna which has been developed for use as a circularly polarized vertical-incidence ionosonde antenna is described. It exhibits an 80-degree beamwidth, 5-dB gain, axial ratio of 1.2:1 and SWR less than 2:1 typically over the band 2-20 MHz. The entire structure is only 38 meters high and 52 meters in diameter. Extensive measurements on models and the full-size antenna are presented which show that the polarization and radiation patterns are quite uniform over the entire operating band. In particular, the radiation pattern shows no evidence of sidelobes at low elevation angles which could cause unwanted oblique returns. The discovery of a beam-reversing phenomenon in spiral antennas is described along with its elimination by geometry control. An example of ionosphere mode selection by means of polarization control with the full-size antenna is presented."
"A method of obtaining a turnstile antenna from a circular array of radial or tangential dipoles is presented. Approximate current distributions, terminal admittances, and radiation fields are given for arrays of 3, 4, and 5 half-wavelength elements for various array diameters."
"Experimental results for the radiation patterns of sectoral horns and corner reflector antennas loaded with uniform and wedge-shaped dielectric slabs along the walls are presented. The results clearly indicate that it is possible to improve the directivity in all cases without a significant increase in the overall antenna weight."
"A general formulation is presented for the treatment of electromagnetic scattering from an arbitrary configuration of thin wires. A system of integral equations is derived for obtaining the currents in the wires."
"The numerical evaluation of an integral is a frequently encountered problem in electromagnetic theory. This is particularly the case when the current distribution or near field of a scatterer or antenna is required, in which case the far-field approximation cannot be employed. A comparative study of several numerical quadrature techniques is presented. The superiority of a variable interval-width technique based on Romberg's method will be demonstrated for an integral typical of those which arise in scattering and radiation from thin-wire structures."
"A method of calculating the radiation fields of a multilayer plasma-clad slot antenna using discrete waveguide modes has been formulated. The fields of a plasma-covered slot radiating into a large waveguide are computed several wavelengths from the antenna. For large guides these fields represent the radiation pattern of an open structure."
"The current distribution along a cylindrical antenna immersed in a magnetized plasma has been measured. It has been observed that the standing wavelength along the antenna wire is substantially shortened to a greater degree with increasing plasma frequency under the presence of the dc magnetic field. The gyroresonance has also been observed in the current distribution."
"It is shown that the radiation from a plasma-coated spherical antenna can be enhanced if the antenna is operated at a frequency much lower than the plasma frequency, and if the dimensions of the antenna and the plasma layer are appropriately chosen. This phenomenon may prove useful for overcoming the blackout problem suffered by a reentry vehicle or may offer a novel method of low-loss tuning of a small antenna."
"For the purpose of radio communication, it is important to study the distortion of signals propagating through an inhomogeneous medium. The problem of finding the distortion of a pulse after it has propagated through a plasma medium whose electron density varies linearly in one direction is discussed. A sinusoidal carrier with a Gaussian pulse envelope is assumed to be the source of the incident plane wave."
"Observations of the radiation from clouds have been made at 33.5 GHz. A diurnal variation in the probability curve for attenuation was found with higher values more common in the afternoon. A probability curve for the expected vertical attenuation is given."
"A method for producing a constant-phase calibration signal anywhere along a transmission line is discussed. Based on the multiplication of two half-frequency signals flowing in opposite directions along the line, a method has been developed particularly for phasing a large radiotelescope array. This method has been used for the adjustment of the University of Sydney one-mile cross-type radiotelescope; the performance of the system is discussed."
"The shallow-cavity crossed-slot antenna is a UHF radiator designed primarily for use on a high-speed aircraft operating as the airborne terminal in a satellite-to-air communications link. The requirements, design analysis, and performance characteristics are described. The antenna's shallow profile makes it attractive either as a paste-on- or flush-mounted-type radiator. Near-hemispherical radiation coverage is provided."
"An antenna capable of high resolution can be synthesized by moving a side-looking radar a long distance and treating positions along the path as the positions of elements in an actual physical array. Important characteristics of such synthetic-aperture radar systems and the effect of target motion on their resolution have been considered. If the motion of the target is known, a transformation can he made in which the target appears stationary, and the relative motion between target and radar determines the effective synthetic aperture. However, if the assumed velocity of the target differs from its actual velocity, the velocity error will cause an apparent displacement of the target and a degradation of the performance of the radar. The effect of velocity errors was considered."
"A procedure for the design of linear arrays where the element locations and the excitation amplitudes are variables is presented. The examples shown illustrate partially uniform arrays designed with specified constraints on sidelobe levels, beamwidth, and allowed element spacings. The design procedure uses computerized multivariable search techniques."
"The Airy-function solution of wave propagation parameters exhibits an accuracy corresponding to a 1-km uncertainty in the height of the lower ionosphere boundary. More accurate solutions are derived from a sequence of thin-layer field representations."
"Edge-diffraction theory is applied to compute theH- plane pattern of a pyramidal horn. Diffracted rays fromEedges of the aperture are shown contributing to back-lobe radiation. A back-lobe pattern obtained by using finite current elements is also given. The computed results agree well with measurements."
"Data are presented for some brief propagation measurements in the free atmosphere at 183.3 GHz (quite near the absorption line frequency) and 171 GHz (a number of linewidths from the line frequency). The observed absorption dependency upon water vapor content is in close agreement with previously reported values for frequencies near the line center, but the attenuation reported for 171 GHz is appreciably less than that deduced from one previous free-atmosphere experiment. The attenuation was found to be distinguishably greater under cloudy conditions than when the sky was clear, but the amount of data is limited."
"The problem of electromagnetic scattering from a randomly rough surface is analyzed in the high-frequency limit with the use of the Kirchhoff approximation in conjunction with the vector Kirchhoff equation. The surface is allowed to have a finite conductivity but is assumed to be homogeneous. The analysis does not require that the surface be described as a Gaussian process; however, explicit formulas are presented for this case. A major new consideration is the effect of shadowing by the surface on its ability to scatter energy."
"Compact range techniques for measuring the gain patterns of full-size microwave antennas and for making radar reflectivity measurements are described. The basic principle of this technique is the use of a large collimating device to generate a uniform plane wave across the aperture of a target or antenna without requiring the normal far-field separation. Two different collimating devices were used in the investigation, a paraboloid with a point-source feed and a parabolic cylinder with a line-source feed generated by a large hoghorn. Pattern and gain measurements were made on both compact ranges using a 30-inch paraboloidal test antenna, and the measurements were compared with similar ones made on conventional outdoor ranges. Radar cross-section patterns as a function of aspect angle were measured for various size standard targets and compared with theoretically calculable radar cross-section patterns. The results which have been achieved are very encouraging. They demonstrate that the performance of compact ranges at theX-band is comparable to that of outdoor ranges."
"It is shown that when a small bare circular loop antenna is buried in the ground it will respond to a vertically (Efield) polarized ground-wave or sky-wave source with a directional azimuthal pattern. The response to a horizontally polarized skywave source is greatly enhanced by burying the antenna and is also shown to be far from omnidirectional in azimuth. These results depend upon the presence of a relatively small departure from a constant current distribution on the loop when it is regarded as a driven element. The current distribution formulas of Chen and King permit easy analytical estimates of these effects."
"The generalized ray optics formulas in lossy media are derived, and the role of absorption in the scattering of a transverse electromagnetic wave by random density fluctuations is studied by the use of the Born approximation in a medium with complex permittivity for the case in which the scale of turbulence is large compared to the wavelength. Formulas for the autocorrelation of phase and amplitude are obtained."
"A study was performed to determine the feasibility of constructing a linearly polarized dual probe coaxial cavity radiator. A full cavity with both probes adjusted according to the haft-cavity experimental results met the VSWR requirements and gave acceptable radiation patterns. Useful design relations are developed relating bandwidth to the probe diameter ratio and the probe slenderness ratio."
"To evaluate the complex transmission factor for the troposphere in the 15- to 35-GHz region, the dispersion and attenuation caused by the isolated molecular resonance of water vapor at 22.235 GHz were calculated. The spectroscopic parameters have been previously determined at low pressures (\\leq20torr) under controlled laboratory conditions with a microwave dispersometer. The computation takes into account the gas composition, pressure, and temperature. Examples for two standard atmospheres and a vertical path model are given. Three theoretical frequency profiles appropriate for a pressure-broadened line are compared with reported measurements, and discrepancies are discussed."
"The mode content of very-low-frequency (VLF) energy propagating away from a horizontally polarized source over long ice-covered paths is studied by means of a laboratory model of the earth-ionosphere waveguide that incorporates one lossy wall. A reflecting upper boundary simulates the nighttime ionosphere; powdered ceramic materials are used at 4 GHz to represent the 15 kHz properties of air and Antarctic ice. The model is a flexible experimental tool potentially applicable to a number of propagation problems. In terms of the immediate study, namely, VLF propagation on the Antarctic continent, it is demonstrated that the three lowest TE modes are sufficient to represent the total far field under the assumed conditions. The laboratory results agree well with theoretical predictions; their relationship to ray concepts is pointed out."
"A finite difference solution technique is used to solve Maxwell's equations directly in the treatment of electromagnetic pulse scattering in a time-varying inhomogeneous medium. In particular the scattering from a cylindrical rod inside a cylindrical waveguide is considered where axial symmetry is obtained."
"The reception properties of a loaded wide-angle biconical antenna within a conducting spherical shell are determined. Formulas for calculation of the effective height and impedance of such a system are given, and numerical results are presented."
"It is shown that simple transposition of the elements of a linear array fed by a Butler matrix can be used to improve the sidelobe level without significant degradation of the other characteristics of the array. The beams remain collimated with gain equal toNtimes element gain, whereNis the number of elements in the array. The beam crossover level is lowered slightly but not so much as would be the case for a conventionally tapered aperture distribution. Improved sidelobes are obtained forN \\geq 14, and data are presented forNas high as 50. Specifically, sidelobe levels of 15.54, 16.54, 17.86, and 18.56 dB are obtained forN = 18, 31, 37, and 44, respectively. Although the improvement is modest for lowN, it appears that the available improvement increases directly withN."
"Relations among the active reflection coefficients, reflected power, element efficiency, and mutual coupling (scattering) coefficients for arbitrary, finite or infinite, regular or nonuniform arrays of possibly dissimilar radiating elements are developed. The excitation which may be employed to define the active reflection magnitudes is not unique; suitable excitations may be chosen from any complete orthogonal set."
"The class of spherically symmetric but radially inhomogeneous dielectric lenses which image a sphere onto a sphere is considered. An approximate formula is obtained for the explicit dependence of the refractive index on the radial distance."
"A procedure for the synthesis of pencil-beam radiation patterns having a given null half-beamwidth and a given sidelobe level by elliptical or circular aperture antennas is presented. The given pattern is first approximated by a modified lambda function; the lambda function is then synthesized by a finite line-source current distribution, which is mapped onto the elliptical aperture. Design curves and formulas are presented."
"This paper describes a theoretical and experimental study of closely spaced open-ended waveguides radiating through a conducting ground plane. The waveguides are large enough in some cases to allew two orthogonally polarized propagating modes in each waveguide. A first-order analysis is presented which is based upon the method of moments and uses a single-mode approximation to the aperture field for each polarization. An improved first-order analysis is also presented which uses a higher order mode solution for the self-admittances. Close agreement with experiment is demonstrated."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"As part of a general study of the backscattering from thin plates illuminated by a plane wave at glancing incidence, measurements have been made of the surface and far fields of circular disks. Some results of the surface field probing are presented and interpreted in terms of optics and creeping wave components analogous to those appropriate to the surface of a cylinder. Analytic forms for the components are then determined, and an expression for the backscattered field deduced therefrom. The result is compared with measured far-field data for electrically thin disks, and the effects of increasing the electrical thickness, either uniformly or nonuniformly, are also discussed."
"The refractive index equation for electromagnetic waves propagating in a relativistically drifting warm magnetoplasma is derived by applying Lorentz and plasma parameters transformations to the refractive index equation in the rest system. Two cases are considered: 1) the nondrifting boundary and 2) the drifting boundary."
"Laboratory measurements of the scattering of microwaves by a plasma covered sphere are presented for forward scattering angles. The radial electron density variation is deduced from these data and a simple model of the experiment."
"The focusing of waves from radiating VLF sources immersed in a cold magnetoplasma is investigated for the case in which the focusing takes place along the static magnetic field direction. The explicit form of tensor Green's function valid along the field line is derived for the far field, and the frequency ranges where focusing may be expected are specified. The theory is applied to calculate the power flux along the field line for an electric dipole and a magnetic loop with two orientations with respect to the static magnetic field."
"The rate of change of the radio-ray-path length for transionospheric satellite signals is determined from Doppler and Faraday effect analyses for quiet ionospheric conditions. VHF beacon signals are used. The transionospheric path length of 40-MHz signals showed a natural oscillatory behavior of 1 wavelength per second."
"A simple formula is described for the apparent admittanceY(ka, b/a)of a monopole of fixed lengthhand radiusawhen driven from a coaxial line (conductor radiibanda). IfY(ka, b/a)is known atnvalues ofkawithb/afixed at(b/a)_{2}and at m values ofb/awithkafixed at(ka)_{1}, it can be evaluated from the given formula for all combinations ofkaandb/ain the two ranges ofnandm. It is assumed thatkb \\ll 1andh \\gg (b-a)."
"A study on the backscattering from two identical perfectly conducting thin circular loops illuminated by a plane electromagnetic wave with vertical polarization at normal incidence is presented. The theory is developed based on differential equations for the loop current rather than on an integral equation method. The induced current on the loops and the backscattering cross sections of the loops are determined, and comparisons are made between the calculated and measured values of the echo area. The experimental results are in good agreement with theory."
"A simple trigonometric expansion for the current in the solution of Hallen's equation gives a good approximation to the impedance of isolated thin cylindrical dipole antennas. For the half-wavelength dipole a two-term representation for the current is found to give an impedance which compares favorably with experimental measurements."
"The time-domain response of a vertical electric dipole located over a circular ground screen is considered. The relevant time-harmonic solution is used as a starting point. By making a number of approximations a very simple formula is obtained for the transient response of the far field when the dipole current moment is a ramp function of time. It is shown that for early times, the pattern response appears as if the ground screen were of infinite extent, while at very long times, the response approaches that expected for a homogeneous flat ground."
"The possibility of radiating an equal amount of power in all directions and all polarizations, using a two-port antenna excited by two independent noise sources, is considered."
"In flight, measurements of the effective noise temperature of a reentry plasma are compared with computed data. The vehicle utilized for the experiment was the Trailblazer II. The measurements were made at a frequency of 2235 MHz and transmitted to the ground in real time byX-band telemetry. Noise temperatures in excess of5000\\degK were recorded. The flight data also demonstrate the importance of antenna location and angle of attack in determining the performance of an RF system. Another result of the flight has been to point out the power of temperature measurements as a diagnostic tool for flow field studies."
"The radiation pattern of the transverse electromagnetic- (TEM) mode parallel-plate waveguide is analyzed by the wedge-diffraction theory in conjunction with a slope-correction term. This term takes into account the nonuniform wave in the analysis of second-order diffractions for an open-ended guide. This slope-correction term provides improved accuracy of the pattern in the region near the plane of the aperture when compared to the usual wedge-diffraction method."
"The element pattern for circular arrays of axial slits on large perfectly conducting cylinders is derived. Its properties are examined and compared with those of similar planar arrays. Implications for circular array design are deduced."
"Power reflection and transmission coefficients are found for linearly and circularly polarized plane electromagnetic waves, normally incident on a plasma slab, moving uniformly along a magnetostatic field, normal to the slab boundaries. The solution is found by applying the boundary conditions in the rest frame, and then using relativistic transformations for the fields and the plasma parameters to find the reflection and transmission coefficients observed in the laboratory frame. The results for the circularly polarized incident waves are found in closed form. Numerical results are presented for linearly polarized incident waves. It is found that with an increase in the magnetostatic field, the absolute maximum of the reflection coefficient increases at different velocities. An increase in the magnetostatic field makes the slab more transparent at velocities for which the transmission coefficient with no magnetostatic field is very small. A dielectric-like behavior is observed for large magnetostatic fields. The sum of the power reflection and power transmission coefficients is found to be no longer equal to unity for velocity different from zero."
"Electromagnetic scattering problems, including waveguide discontinuity, phased array, and scattering (exterior type) problems, are frequently described by integral equations that can be solved by the Ritz-Galerkin or generalized method of moments. Under appropriate conditions, it has been shown that reciprocity and variational properties are, in fact, preserved in the approximate solutions. It is shown here that in the Ritz-Galerkin method, energy is also conserved under certain conditions, even in those scattering problems where reciprocity does not exist. Hence energy conservation cannot serve as a check for accuracy of a numerical solution obtained by the Ritz method or other related methods."
"The electromagnetic radiation from an aperture on a conducting cylinder coated with a moving isotropic plasma sheath is considered. Numerical results are presented to illustrate the radiation patterns as functions of sheath velocity and plasma frequency for the circumferential slot and axial slot apertures. It is found for the circumferential slot aperture that the radiation is enhanced in the direction of sheath motion when the plasma is overdense and that relatively little change occurs when the sheath is underdense. For the axial slot, it is found that an electromagnetic field is radiated whose polarization is normal to that of the field radiated under stationary conditions, in addition to a field of the usual polarization. Significant alterations of radiation patterns from their form when the sheath is stationary can occur at relatively small velocities if the wave frequency is near the plasma frequency."
"The use of dielectric materials for the hardening and matching of phased-array antennas in recent years has shown that a more complete understanding of the effects of these materials upon the array performance is necessary. The characteristics of fully loaded, plugged, and sheath covered circular waveguide phase arrays are analyzed and discussed. Numerical solutions of the boundary-value problem are verified by experimental and convergence tests. Particular emphasis is placed on the study of (forced) surface wave resonance effects. Three different cases for surface wave resonances were obtained. These include the case in which surface wave resonances are present in the absence of dielectrics, the case in which they are trapped by the presence of dielectric plugs, as well as the case in which waves are trapped by the presence of a dielectric sheath. The surface wave resonance due to the plug is shown to vanish for certain \"bandpass\" ranges of plug thickness which repeat periodically for a single trapped waveguide mode. On the other hand, the surface wave trapped in the sheath exhibits no \"bandpass\" characteristics. Instead, multiple surface wave resonances occur with increasing sheath thickness. Finally, the surface wave resonances observed here appear at isolated points in the scan plane."
"This paper is concerned with the determination of the driving-point impedance of a monopole which is located at the center of the base of a perfectly conducting, right circular cone. The cone is assumed to be sufficiently large that it is valid to apply ray-optical theory. It is shown that the field which is reflected back to the monopole from the edge of the base may be pictured as arising from an equivalent magnetic current located at the base edge, the magnitude of which is determined by wedge-diffraction principles. Use of the induced electromotive-force (EMF) method then allows estimation of the change in the monopole impedance from its value on a ground plane of infinite extent. Proper account is taken of the edge curvature and of the more significant multiply diffracted rays. In the degenerate case in which the cone becomes an infinitely thin disk, the general result is shown to reduce to that obtained by a completely independent method. For this particular case, the theory is also compared with published experimental data and the agreement shown to be good for disks with a diameter exceeding one wavelength."
"This paper considers radiation from a finite, right circular, perfectly conducting cone which is excited by a quarter-wave monopole protruding from the center of its base. The cone is assumed to be of a size which places it above the resonance region, making a solution by the geometrical theory of diffraction possible. A formula which allows determination of the tip radiated ray from a semi-infinite cone excited by a uniform, in-phase, magnetic ring current is first derived. This is then used in conjunction with certain other known canonical solutions to obtain a complete solution for the proposed excitation. Radiation patterns, computed on a digital machine from the formulas derived, are compared with measured results and good agreement demonstrated."
"The free current oscillations in a wire antenna are basic for the approximate representation of the driven antenna as a primary current source. It is shown here that this current distribution to be used as a primary source is altered by the motion of the surrounding medium. In contrast with conclusions elsewhere in literature, this result yields that the power radiation pattern of a center-driven linear antenna is not altered by the motion of the medium."
"Determination of the phase center of the field scattered from the tilted hyperboloidal subreflector in an asymmetric Cassegrainian antenna system is carried out using several techniques. The caustic curves associated with the virtual reflected rays in the asymmetric system are determined from a differential-geometry analysis of the problem. A geometrical-optics analysis is carried out to determine a best-fit phase-center position by a least-squares curve fitting technique. The phase of the scattered field, as determined by a diffraction-theory analysis, is also used in a best-fit phase-center determination. The phase centers of the scattered field for six hyperboloid diameter-to-wavelength ratios (from 59.54 down to 2) and the point of intersection of the two caustic curves are all found to be within approximately 1/10 wavelength of each other (for each characteristic wavelength). A substantial decrease in rms phase variation around the best-fit phase centers is seen, compared to the phase variation around the paraboloid prime focus."
"The integral equation of a cylindrical monopole antenna with a hemispherical cap driven by a coaxial line is formulated and solved by two approximations. First, the current on the cap is approximated by a sinusoidal distribution. Secondly, the field across the driven gap is approximated by the fundamental transverse electromagnetic (TEM) coaxial-line mode. Results are compared with the tubular model. It is shown that the input admittance curve of the capped antenna has the same shape as that of the tubular antenna with open ends but is shifted. The radiation patterns of the two antennas are essentially the same. The capped antenna is approximately equivalent to the tubular antenna with length 0.25 times the radius shorter than the total axial length of the antenna with a cap."
"The radiation from a waveguide through a dielectric slab has been analyzed by using the integral equation formalism. The integral equations are solved by the generalized method of moments to obtain the aperture electric field, from which the reflection coefficients, radiation patterns, and the degree of surface wave excitation are calculated. It is found that the presence of the dielectric slab causes the higher order modes to be strongly excited in the aperture, and that they must be included for proper determination of the various quantities of interest. This is particularly so when thin dielectric slabs of high dielectric constant are used. Numerical results are obtained to illustrate the effects of dielectric slabs on the radiation characteristics of the antenna."
"Compact expressions are given for the reactive energies and modal quality factors in the literature. The formulas do not involve spherical Bessel functions and are in terms of, at most, two polynomials having positive coefficients which are readily calculable. Curves are presented for the exact forms for a number of modal quality factors."
"Space wave radiation fields for an inclined electric dipole antenna in Arctic and Antarctic terrain are formulated with the results from superposition of fields for horizontal and vertical dipoles. Boundary conditions and the Fourier-Bessel transforms are applied to the wave equations in each layer of the multilayer media used as the terrain model. Integral expressions are obtained in closed form in terms of the media parameters. Homogeneous and stratified media, with ice above sea water or soil, are described. The inclination angles for optimum (maximum) space wave fields in a fixed polar angle\\thetaare obtained for both types of terrain. Patterns of the radiation fields are presented for several terrain conditions and inclination angles."
"A brief discussion of an interdigital-line radiator is presented. The structure, initially called an interdigital array antenna, has its unique radiation characteristic at some proper frequency range. A broadside or an endfire radiation can be accomplished by rearranging the feed point of the structure. A fairly broad-band operation was observed."
"The self and mutual admittances for a pair of identical rectangular-slot antennas in an echelon configuration in the presence of an inhomogeneous plasma layer are derived using stationary expressions. Computations using the dominant TE01mode of the waveguide as a trial field are compared with experiments using a wide variety of configurations of space cloth to validate the computational techniques. These self and mutual admittances are then used to calculate the voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) and isolation for a pair of rectangular slots in the presence of a typical boundary-layer plasma on a sharp, slender conical body. The number of steps needed to adequately approximate the profile is determined together with the range of validity of various thin and thick sheath approximations."
"Maximum efficiency for a given feed size is obtained if the resultant field from the feed matches in the conjugate sense the incident field at the aperture of the feed. A previous study of shallow reflectors shows that the mode composition required to achieve a good match can be obtained analytically. Graphic computer techniques used to study deep reflectors are discussed."
"Investigations have been made to determine the effects of interparticle collisions on the antiresonant impedance characteristics of an electrically short, cylindrical antenna in the vicinity of the plasma frequency of an isotropic non-Maxwellian plasma (a weakly ionized plasma in which the electron-neutral collision frequency for momentum transfer is a function of the electron energy). The dependence of the electron-neutral collision frequency on the electron energy has been taken into account. The experimental results have been compared with the theories proposed by King et al [1] and Balmain [2]. The use of this antenna as a diagnostic probe for measuring electron-neutral collision frequency and electron density has been investigated. Electron-neutral collision frequencies for helium measured by this technique are in good agreement with theoretical results calculated from the collision cross-section data of Golden and Bandel [3]."
"A radar sounding system developed by one of us (Richter) has a height resolution (about 1 meter) capable of resolving the detailed structure of small features in the atmosphere never before seen. Two distinctly different types of wave phenomena characterize many of the records. One type is a long-period internal wave. The mechanism of generation is discussed and waves observed on the radar are compared with theory. They are shown to represent the fundamental mode of gravity waves for a stable lower troposphere. The other type is much shorter in period and typically shows a cusped structure like a breaking wave. Radar observations are compared with simultaneous wind and temperature soundings, and it is concluded that wind shear is unquestionably the mechanism of generation of the second type. Evidence is presented that untrapped waves above the region of instability can cause a flow of energy away from the shear zone and the energy flux is calculated. Their relation to atmospheric stability is described. Their size is deduced from the observations, and their potential as a mechanism for generation of turbulence at the high frequency end of the atmospheric turbulence spectrum is discussed."
"Search coil magnetometers on orbiting geophysical observatories have detected within the magnetosphere emissions at frequencies below approximately 1000 Hz. Data are available from polar-orbiting spacecraft (OGO 4 and 6) in which ELF hiss have a sharp, low-frequency cutoff is frequently present at high latitudes. The altitudes of the two space-craft vary between 400 and 1000 km, thereby monitoring a region of the lower magnetosphere in which there are large variations in ion composition. Data are also available from OGO 3 and 5 which have highly eccentric orbits with apogees exceeding 20 earth radii. Emissions have been detected on these spacecraft both inside and outside the plasmasphere. The principal signals inside the plasmapause are hiss, similar to that seen at low altitudes by the polar-orbiting spacecraft, which between the plasmapause and magnetopause, chorus is commonly observed. Since the search coil magnetometers are triaxial instruments, it has been possible to investigate the polarization and direction of propagation of the several signals in the various regions, Preliminary results of this study will be presented."
"The scalar diffraction pattern of a circular aperture is determined under the condition that the aperture field exhibits an asymmetric phase error of the form\\psi(r,\\phi') = -\\xi(r) \\cos \\phi', whererand\\phi'are polar coordinates in the aperture. The aperture phase varies as\\cos \\phi'and, therefore, is an odd function about the plane defined by\\phi' = \\pi/2, 3\\pi/2. Function\\xi(r)defines the radial variation of phase in the aperture. The radiation pattern is calculated by computer methods to determine the beam shift and pattern distortion which results from the asymmetric phase error. Radiation patterns are presented for the cases\\xi(r) = \\beta r^{2}, and\\xi(r) = \\beta r^{3}, where constant\\betatakes on the values\\beta = 0, \\pi/4, and\\pi/2. The aperture field is specified to be the parabolic squared on a pedestal distributionf(r) = b + (1-b) (1-r^{2})^{2}. Patterns are calculated for edge tapers of 0 db, -12 db, and -20 db. Although the patterns are presented for particular phase error functions, the diffraction integral is readily evaluated for arbitrary phase functions. The patterns conveniently illustrate the effects of asymmetric phase error in circular apertures. A paraboloidal reflector which is used as a satellite antenna can experience asymmetric distortion under certain conditions of sun illumination. The analysis presented here can be used to determine the reflector pattern under such conditions. The phase function and radiation pattern of a paraboloid which undergoes thermal distortion is given as an example."
"This paper derives a compact algebraic expression for the radiation field of a thin linear antenna of arbitrary length and arbitrary driving-point location. The vector-potential method is used to calculate the far field from a sum of an assumed generalized asymptotic form of current which neglects radiation and a phase quadrature current which accounts for the radiated power. The radiation field contains both real and imaginary parts. If the driving point is moved to the center of the antenna, the imaginary components vanish and the field becomes the text book expression for the far field of a center-driven, thin linear antenna. The expression for the radiation field clearly shows that a driving point located away from the center of the antenna causes the imaginary components to combine in such a way that the field pattern becomes asymmetric. The calculated far fields of several thin, linear asymmetrically-driven antennas are compared with measured field patterns found in the literature and with measurements made in this study. Reasonably good agreement is found between the measured and calculated fields."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"A low-power operational amplifier that has medium open-loop gain will be described. Optimum circuit performance can be maintained, notwithstanding power drain and voltage gain changes due to amplifier's external components."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the foreword to the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the recipients of the Outstanding Paper Awards at the 1968 ISSCC conference proceedings."
"IMPATT oscillators have been designed into microwave systems as 35-GHz pumps for parametric amplifiers, multipurpose drivers for radar TWT transmitters and exciters with wide-band modulation capability for data-link transmission systems."
"This paper will describe a new differential amplifier, the dual of conventional amplifiers, whose output is proportional to the differential-mode input current, while common-mode currents are rejected. High common-mode rejection can be maintained over wide bandwidths."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"An all solid-state display has been developed by combining a matrix of 28 GaAs luminescent diodes with complex silicon integrated circuits. Design trade-offs will be discussed showing the total interaction. Some applications will be illustrated."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"The display related properties of liquid crystal cells and addressing techniques for liquid crystal matrix displays will be presented. A 36-element matrix producing moving half-tone images in real time will be described."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Diode and ferrite phase shifters, accenting performance and costs, will be covered by the panel. Additionally, high-power and low-power phase-shifter and driver designs, applicable in the various frequency bands, will be discussed."
"A discussion emphasizing fundamental concepts and limiting factors of various approaches of converting DC to RF microwave power. Also examined will be system requirements."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"This paper will discuss a topological layout project for IC components using a computer, based on given circuit diagrams and order of bonding pads."
"A comprehensive discussion of circuit design and technology for the realization of micropower consumption in linear integrated circuits will be offered. Essential transistor and resistor, physics and process technology with tradeoffs in circuit design between speed, power dissipation, and scale of integration will be discussed."
"A 40-ns access bipolar monolithic memory of 2021 words × 144 bits capacity has been developed and incorporated in a computing system. The design and structure of a 64-bit silicon chip will be presented and some aspects of the organization and circuit design discussed."
"Design and fabrication of high-speed 72- and 144- gate arrays developed for the LIMAC computer will be described. Arrays employ a low-power current mode logic cell with 4 to 5-ns propagation delay at 10 mW to provide increased logic complexity at reduced power dissipation."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"The electrical behavior of contacts on diffused resistors can be explained by an equivalent transmission line. What contributes to the contact resistance and how the contacts can be optimized will be discussed in this paper."
"The results of a theoretical and experimental investigation of contact resistance and current distribution in metal-to-silicon contacts of planar devices will be presented. Typical experimental values of the transition resistance between metal and diffusion layers will be offered."
"Presents the formal opening of the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"The following problems will be probed by the panel. Comparison of IGFETs with bipolar transistors for LSI. The state-of-the-art for N-channel, complementary nitride and other gate insulators and substrates. Applications in memories, shift registers, and other digital and linear circuits."
"The modes of oscillation of avalanche diodes, including the recently-discovered TRAPATT mode, and the various circuit conditions under which they operate will be covered in this paper."
"A phase-sensitive rectifier with a dynamic range of 104from 3 Hz-100 kHz that features a floating power supply insensitive to component values and supply voltages will be described."
"A circuit containing a Si Hall element that can drive a brushless DC motor wll be described. Requirements with respect to the accuracy of the components will be given and compared with possibilities of the current Si technology."
"A high-sensitivity pressure diode with a resistance variation of 1000-10,000 has been developed. Solid-state switching circuits and SCR controls using the pressure-sensitive diode will be described."
"The effect of transient voltage on solid-state circuits is often detrimental. Data on surge severity and occurrence that devices must withstand to insure more reliable solid-state circuit design will be covered."
"An X-band switch consisting of a silicon waveguide window with injecting structure will be described. The microwave component, capable of handling 40-kW peak, has a 0.4-dB loss and 10-dB isolation across the complete waveguide band."
"A new narrow-bandwidth noise generator that can be electronically tuned over a wide frequency range has been developed. The device is based on the frequency-selective power-limiting characteristic of YIG materials."
"The application of scattering parameters, computer-aided design and thin-film IC techniques in the design of a 0.1-2 GHz high-gain, 40-mW wideband amplifier will be discussed."
"A YIG-tuned bulk GaAs oscillator which is electrically tunable from 4-12 GHz with a minimum of +4 dBm power output will be described. Tuning power is less than 0.75 W at 12 GHz."
"A hybrid integrated power source consisting of an amplifier-multiplier chain that develops 10-W CW over a 10% bandwidth at 3 GHz with a power input of 0.5 W at 1500 MHz will be discussed."
"Integrated UHF power amplifiers using thin-film lumped-elements affording powers as high as 20 W and bandwidths as much as 40% in the 225-400 MHz band will be described."
"The algorithm, model and results of computer programs with a built-in large signal MOS model that provides DC and transient analysis of P, N or complementary MOS circuits will be covered in this paper."
"This paper will describe an integrated 1024-bit MOST memory, including selection matrices, using discretionary wiring. The technology, including the opto-mechanical mask generator and performance, will be discussed along with some indication of costs in production."
"A method for diagnosing arbitrary single-gate failures in combinational logic circuits will be presented. The procedure will locate the faulty gate and describe its failure which may be any detectable transformation of the correct gate function."
"A computer-aided topological layout of components and wiring in integrated circuits will presented based on a new kind of graph which accounts for all technological restrictions, as well as possibilities."
"A computer-aided analysis method for the design of generators which can produce pulses shaped to specifications even in the GH range will be discussed. Pulse powers of more than 10 V p/p across 50 ohms can be obtained."
"New bipolar integrated circuit structures, which use no more processing steps than a convenional transistor, promise reduced processing costs and an increase in circuit packing density. This should lead to corresponding reductions in system cost with improved system performance; these improvements will be described."
"The measurement of driving point and transfer impedances over a wide spectrum rapidly and accurately will be discussed in this paper. A computer transforms the pulse response into the frequency response, and a sampling oscilloscope provides the time transformation needed for data acquisition."
"A voltage regulator, using solid-state switching techniques, for applications where the conventional series regulator and inductor type of switching regulator are impractical, will be described. Good regulation with high peak current capability are provided."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"This paper will discuss a technique of pulsing filter networks that simultaneously achieves the realization of continuously variable filter parameters and capacitor multiplication. Active elements are shared to provide multiple transfer function channels whose parameters are pulse controlled."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1969 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"A new base-widening theory that predicts nonlinear transistor transit times will be presented. These and special measurement techniques have been used in modeling a subnanosecond transistor to predict the switching performance of a 350-ps emitter coupled pair."
"An analog fixed or variable delay line using P-channel MOS field-effect transistors has been monolithically fabricated on silicon. This paper will describe sample-and-hold operation, design considerations, properties, and applications of this integrated circuit."
"Previous circuit performance comparisons between N-channel and P-channel IGFETs have not considered the control of device performance with substrate bias. These factors will be described and the resulting performance advantages of N-channel devices illustrated for a memory chip."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A monolithic operational amplifier which achieves a gain of 150,000, 5 nA input current and a 4 V/μs slew rate will be described. The amplifier incorporates high β input transistors, a novel PNP-NPN composite and an MOS compensation capacitor."
"The design and fabrication of a monolithic operational amplifier with high slew rate, large bandwidth, fast settling time and excellent DC characteristics will be discussed. At closed loop gains of 1, 10 and 100, typical slew rates are 20 V/μs, 40 V/μs and 60 V/μs, respectively."
"A survey of recently-discovered integrated-circuit elements will be made, explaining their impact on the design of monolithic operational amplifiers with good DC characteristics, especially low-input current, and faster operating speeds."
"Coherent single-frequency power amplification has been obtained at X-band. The bandwidth exceeds 2 GHz with 8-dB gain. Computer simulation indicates bandwidths should exceed 40% with simple networks."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the keynote address of the conference proceedings."
"This paper will describe a semiconductor display with inherent memory whose central element is a monolithic integrated circuit that performs the logic function in additon to the optical ouput on the display surface. Matrix address is permitted."
"A word-organized photodetecting array capable of sub-microsecond response to low light-level signals will be described. The array uses PIN diodes for both detection and selection, and fabrication in monolithic form has been achieved."
"A DC binary circuit which utilizes P-channel MNOS transistors for all circuit functions and several novel characteristics such as nonvolatile storage, preset complementing and the elimination of a threshold voltage drop on the load devices will be discussed."
"This paper will describe a new type of trapping effect observed in stacked-gate MOS tetrodes. Control of and application of this effect to an electrically-alterable read-only memory will be discussed."
"The design of an integrated, parallel-organized, associative memory element containing the majority of repetitive logic required to implement a large, flexible associative memory system will be described."
"A monolithic MOS 144-bit random access memory has been fabricated, using N-channel MOS transistors. The memory operates with a 10-ns access time, 30-ns non-destructive read cycle time, and a 40-ns write cycle time."
"A high-quality microwave amplifier for multichannel FM signals will be described. The design is based on excellent results of a noise-loading test for an IMPATT oscillator phase-locked to an external FM driving signal."
"A 40-ns access bipolar monolithic memory of 2021 words × 144 bits capacity has been developed and incorporated in a computing system. The design and structure of a 64-bit silicon chip will be presented and some aspects of the organization and circuit design discussed."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A novel dictionary-size optical-tactile reading aid for the blind has been developed using integrated electronics. Salient features include efficient multiplex circuitry, a unique image sensor and automatic compensation of optical changes in reading material."
"A new and practical inductorless solution to the integration of frequency-selective communication circuits will be described. The design and performance of an integrated phase-locked FM amplifier/demodulator will be discussed."
"This paper will discuss a linear IC designed and fabricated to perform the functions of sync separation, noise inverson, and AGC amplification. The IC uses P-channel MOS units as active transistors, diodes, and resistors."
"A parametric up-converter using germanium avalanche diodes with 4-GHz input signal and 46.5-GHz output will be described. Pump power of +10 dBm provides maximum output power of +5.1 dBm."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"An integrated-circuit signal-processing circuit for black and white TV receivers that has been designed, fabricated and tested will be described. The circuit contains video preamplification, AGC detection and amplification, noise inversion, sync separation and horizontal-pulse detection."
"Pulsed operation of silicon punch-through avalanche diodes has produced oscillations with efficiencies exceeding 30% at 2-3 GHz, and 17% at 6 GHz."
"A fully short-circuit, fail-safe power amplifier fed via a single supply line ranging from 6 to 18 V, with a minimum of external components and operating in the military range of temperatures will be described."
"An avalanche-diode oscillator that has achieved pulsed power output of 180 W at 1.3 GHz with 40% efficiency will be discussed. Frequency is tunable from 1.0-1.6 GHz with power variations less than 1 dB."
"The design and performance of an X-band multistage avalanche amplifier in semi-integrated form will be described. Experimental results reveal gains of 40 dB and minimum power output of 30 mW over a 200-MHz bandwidth."
"Cascading compact diode mounts and waveguide spacers produce highly-efficient oscillator power combining. This structure can also satisfactorily perform as a large-signal TW amplifier, provided closer electrical tolerances and more critical tuning are observed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A complete timing generator has been realized using five beam-leaded silicon and two tantalum integrated circuits, including 217 transistors, 345 resistors, and capacitors totaling 400 pf, all mounted on one square inch of ceramic."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper will discuss an indicator tube driver circuit using MOS and bipolar transistors in a monolithic form, making it economically practical to use the driver in desk-top calculators."
"A high-speed 30-circuit silicon chip using non-saturating emitter-coupled logic circuits with 750-ps loaded delay per stage using 3-level metalization will be described. The chip contains 210 transistors and 196 resistors."
"The design, fabrication and performance of a silicon-monolithic, PN junction-isolated IC which provides a 120-V p/p output voltage swing will be discussed. Cited as an example will be an integrated TV video preamp and output amplifier with 800-mW power dissipation."
"Subnanosecond propagation delays in a system environment have been achieved using beam-lead silicon integrated-circuit chips assembled on ceramic substrates. The basic gate design and performance of a multi-chip logic circuit will be discussed."
"Two high-density multichip subsystems utilizing beam lead ICs and multilayer metal technology on large ceramic substrates will be described: a 26-IC dual four-bit arithmetic unit (1\" by 2\") and a 16 k/b random-access MOS memory (304 ICs) on a 4\" by 5\" alumina card."
"The general theoretical model predicts the amount of threshold voltage change with time for both writing and storage modes of operation. Experimental data fit these theoretical expressions containing no adjustable parameter."
"This paper will describe a 1-dimensional transistor analysis program featuring Fermi statistics, saturated velocity and transient effects that predicts switching delays (loaded, packaged CSEF circuits) Of 50 ps(Ge) and 150 ps(SI) for near-ultimate impurity profiles, and at current densities of 105A/cm2."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The technology of complementary MOS has already resulted in significant advantages in circuit simplicity, speed-power, and noise immunization. Future technological improvements to increase device gain, reduce capacity, and increase packing density will make complementary MOS even more attractive. The relationships among device physics, processing technology and performance will be presented."
"The physics, process technology, and circuit design of radiation-hardened ICs will be discussed. Appropriate circuit design, plus optimum processing techniques (dielectric isolation, small geometry, controlled assembly methods, etc.) will be shown to improve low-power integrated circuits to the point where they no longer limit most systems exposed to nuclear weapons."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"By combining spark erosion and electrochemical etching it has been found possible to fabricate solid-state microtransducers. Technology for a pressure transducer, with an epitaxial layer as the diaphragm, will be described."
"The design and performance of an AC line-operated phase-control circuit will be discussed and novel monolithic functional elements-full-wave bridge rectifier, slicon bilateral switch, and low impedance zener-described and related to performance."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"An IC sinusoidal volage-controlled oscillator using simultaneously-processed bipolar and unipolar junction devices suitable for phase-locked loop applications will be described and experimental results presented. Distributed RC devices are used for the frequency-controlling elements."
"Lists the information discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"This paper describes methods for measuring the nonlinear distortions of loudspeakers. The proposed methods are basically procedures for analyzing distortion in terms of acoustic power, with the aid of noise bands. The advantages of the proposed methods are briefly presented, along with examples of experimental data obtained. Also presented are some ideas on the determination of the nominal power of loudspeakers."
"In the present age of scientific discovery, man has become more and more dependent on the use of electronic computers. As this powerful tool becomes more universally important in man's day-to-day existence, it becomes increasingly more annoying that he has to speak to it in its mode of communication, paper tape or punch cards; and not in his own, the spoken word. Even today in the very infancy of the computer age, the time required to do many computations is less than the time required to instruct the machine in how to do them. All this points to the need of a method of achieving machine recognition of speech. In this paper an electronic speech processor is described which provides an analog voltage output based on the difference signal between the first speech formant and the second. Machine recognition of numbers zero through nine was very good when the speech processor output was sampled and compared with previously recorded memory-stored data in a small digital computer."
"A general model for speech synthesis by rule is presented along with a discussion of one specific implementation of the model. The conversion from discrete input signals to continuous synthesizer control signals is performed by the synthesis strategy. The details of the synthesis strategy, including linguistic preprocessing of the input and separate but interdependent segmental and suprasegmental models, are described. An experimental evaluation of the specific model is included, along with specific recommendations as to areas of speech synthesis and speech production requiring further study."
"When manual dynamic range compression is replaced by an automatic compression system, the sound engineer must still be able to choose some characteristics of the compression. An automatic system and the theory motivating its design are described. We have built a device (EMT 156) that enables the sound engineer to adjust any of the six static parameters; also, the system automatically chooses its own dynamic properties as a function of the input program signal."
"The efficient transmission or processing of speech requires that a compromise be made between quality and bandwidth. Systems for bandwidth reduction, such as the vocoder, are usually designed to preserve the spectral content of the signal. High-quality systems, on the other hand, generally preserve waveshape by using high digital sampling rates. The determination of an adequate compromise is seriously impeded by the basic differences in these two approaches. The objective here is to investigate an analysis-synthesis procedure, that has been used to represent other signals, as a vehicle for determining this compromise. The continuous speech is divided arbitrarily into time periods and each period is expressed as a set of coefficients of an exponential expansion. The distinctive nature of speech is reflected in the choice of basis and analysis period rather than by special processing operations such as the pitch extraction of a vocoder. It has been demonstrated by digital simulation that with a proper selection of parameters both temporal waveshape and the spectrum can be preserved by this method. The statistically selected basis consists of ten pairs of damped sines and cosines and the experimentally chosen analysis period is 5.2 milliseconds. The coefficients of this expansion were measured by digital filtering on the computer. The simulated system is capable of synthesizing high-quality speech for speakers whose average pitch varied from 80 to 245 Hz without changing either the basis or the period. Although the feasibility of such a system has been demonstrated, a detailed investigation of coding techniques will be necessary before its efficiency can be compared to other approaches."
"The methods and equipment for measuring the characteristics of a loudspeaker in a reverberation chamber are described. Analogous setups can be created under manufacturing plant conditions. The reverberation method is shown to possess a number of advantages in comparison with more generally accepted methods, and it is recommended for use in the practical planning and testing of loudspeakers."
"A Honeywell DDP-516 computer is used with an interactive program to study an acoustic-oscillator model of the vocal cords. The program includes a simulated vocal tract. Iterative solutions are obtained to difference equations which describe the acoustic volume velocity through the cords and the sound pressure output at the mouth. The results can be printed, displayed on a scope, or D/A converted for auditory assessment. A fast Fourier transform provides spectral analysis of the synthesized signals. Parameters that the experimenter can specify from the console include, 1) subglottal pressure, 2) vocal cord tension, 3) vocal tract shape, 4) air density and 5) sound velocity. Results show that tract configuration, and hence acoustic load on the cords, substantially influences fundamental frequency of voicing. Fundamental frequency is also found to be a monotonic function of sub-glottal pressure and cord tension, other factors being constant. Increasing air density tends to reduce fundamental frequency, while changes in sound velocity affect it negligibly."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"We introduce an approach to the design of low-pass (and, by extension, bandpass) digital filters containing only zeros. This approach is that of directly searching for transition values of the sampled frequency response function to reduce the sidelobe level of the response. It is shown that the problem is a linear program and a search algorithm is derived which makes it easier to obtain the experimental results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The fast Fourier transform is considered to owe its speed to the fact that a certain matrix, none of whose elements is zero, can be factored into matrices with very many zeros. This paper describes and discusses a procedure for explicitly carrying out such a factorization."
"An associative memory is proposed as a parallel processing unit for the fast Fourier transform; such a processing unit is well suited to implementation in large-scale integrated circuit technologies. Formulas are derived for the number of memory operations required to execute the algorithm and are tabulated for a range of the number of data points being transformed. It is shown that a 1024 word by 64 bit memory with an operation time of 100 ns could execute a 1024 point transform in 8.4 ms."
"A computational algorithm for numerically evaluating thez-transform of a sequence ofNsamples is discussed. This algorithm has been named the chirpz-transform (CZT) algorithm. Using the CZT algorithm one can efficiently evaluate thez-transform atMpoints in thez-plane which lie on circular or spiral contours beginning at any arbitrary point in thez-plane. The angular spacing of the points is an arbitrary constant, andMandNare arbitrary integers. The algorithm is based on the fact that the values of thez-transform on a circular or spiral contour can be expressed as a discrete convolution. Thus one can use well-known high-speed convolution techniques to evaluate the transform efficiently. ForMandNmoderately large, the computation time is roughly proportional to(N+M) \\log_{2}(N+M)as opposed to being proportional toN . Mfor direct evaluation of thez-transform atMpoints."
"This paper contains an analysis of the fixed-point accuracy of the power of two, fast Fourier transform algorithm. This analysis leads to approximate upper and lower bounds on the root-mean-square error. Also included are the results of some accuracy experiments on a simulated fixed-point machine and their comparison with the error upper bound."
"The finite Fourier transform of a finite sequence is defined and its elementary properties are developed. The convolution and term-by-term product operations are defined and their equivalent operations in transform space are given. A discussion of the transforms of stretched and sampled functions leads to a sampling theorem for finite sequences. Finally, these results are used to give a simple derivation of the fast Fourier transform algorithm."
"Occasionally, arrays of data to be fast Fourier transformed (FFT'ed) are too large to fit in internal computer memory, and must be kept on an external storage device. This situation is especially serious for one-dimensional arrays, since they cannot be factored along the natural cleavage planes, as multi-dimensional arrays can. Two methods for FFT of such data are presented-one efficient when data storage is only slightly larger than available internal memory, and one when data is much larger. A FORTRAN program based on these methods is available."
"This correspondence presents a mechanization of the fast Fourier transform which results in a particularly simple and compact FORTRAN program without the need for sorting the answers."
"A fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm is presented for an unstructured, parallel ensemble of computing elements with global control. The procedure makes efficient use of a fixed-size memory and minimizes data transmission between computing elements. Included are some practical considerations of the trade-offs between element utilization and gain of computing speed via parallelism."
"This discussion served as an introduction to the Hardware Implementations Session of the IEEE Workshop on Fast Fourier Transform Processing. It introduces the problems associated with implementing the FFT algorithm in hardware and provides a frame of reference for characterizing specific implementations. Many of the design options applicable to an FFT processor are described, and a brief comparison of several machine organizations is given."
"This paper presents an algorithm for computing the fast Fourier transform, based on a method proposed by Cooley and Tukey. As in their algorithm, the dimensionnof the transform is factored (if possible), andn/pelementary transforms of dimensionpare computed for each factorpofn. An improved method of computing a transform step corresponding to an odd factor ofnis given; with this method, the number of complex multiplications for an elementary transform of dimensionpis reduced from(p-1)^{2}to(p-1)^{2}/4for oddp. The fast Fourier transform, when computed in place, requires a final permutation step to arrange the results in normal order. This algorithm includes an efficient method for permuting the results in place. The algorithm is described mathematically and illustrated by a FORTRAN subroutine."
"Fast Fourier analysis (FFA) and fast Fourier synthesis (FFS) algorithms are developed for computing the discrete Fourier transform of a real series, and for synthesizing a real series from its complex Fourier coefficients. A FORTRAN program implementing both algorithms is given in the Appendix."
"When implementing a digital filter, it is important to utilize in the design a bound or estimate of the largest output value which will be obtained. Such a bound is particularly useful when fixed point arithmetic is to be used since it assists in determining register lengths necessary to prevent overflow. In this paper we consider the class of digital filters which have an impulse response of finite duration and are implemented by means of circular convolutions performed using the discrete Fourier transform. A least upper bound is obtained for the maximum possible output of a circular convolution for the general case of complex input sequences. For the case of real input sequences, a lower bound on the least upper bound is obtained. The use of these results in the implementation of this class of digital filters is discussed."
"Although the use of quadratically modified periodograms as spectral estimators for the Gaussian case is well established in the literature, the linearly modified form has grown in popular use even when the data involved can be reasonably presumed to be Gaussian. The mean and variance of the two forms of estimators are calculated as well as the equivalent duration of the data window. It is shown that variance is always greater or the equivalent duration of the sample data length is always less for the linear case when the results are normalized with respect to the effective bandwidth. In addition, a generalized form of the Hanning window is considered."
"Correction factors were devised for correction of bias and computation of confidence intervals around estimates of coherence spectra computed upon Gaussian random time series. Using Monte Carlo methods to compute approximate sampling distributions for coherence, statistical descriptions of the bias and standard deviations were obtained. Correction factors were devised which extend the utility of coherence estimates to a value of coherence = 0. Previously coherence = 0.4 was a lower limit."
"The history of the fast Fourier transform of Cooley and Tukey, as well as experience with general-purpose optimization programs, suggests that publication alone does not result in wide use of a new and vastly more efficient computational technique. Recounting his role as entrepreneur and missionary in connection with the fast Fourier transform, the author emphasizes these difficulties and notes the need for mechanisms for easing the cross-utilization of valuable new techniques."
"A list of features that serves to characterize an FFT processor was developed during a working session of the IEEE Workshop on Fast Fourier Transform Processing. Based on this list, information was requested on all of the processors that were known to the Workshop Organizing Committee. A copy of the table shown in this paper was sent to 20 companies with the request that each company specify the data relating to their machine in the form they would like it to be printed. The table represents a compilation of the returns."
"A statistical model for roundoff errors is used to predict output noise-to-signal ratio when a fast Fourier transform is computed using floating point arithmetic. The result, derived for the case of white input signal, is that the ratio of mean-squared output noise to mean-squared output signal varies essentially as\\nu = \\log_{2}NwhereNis the number of points transformed. This predicted result is significantly lower than bounds previously derived on mean-squared output noise-to-signal ratio, which are proportional to ν2. The predictions are verified experimentally, with excellent agreement. The model applies to rounded arithmetic, and it is found experimentally that if one truncates, rather than rounds, the results of floating point additions and multiplications, the output noise increases significantly (for a given ν). Also, for truncation, a greater than linear increase with ν of the output noise-to-signal ratio is observed; the empirical results seem to be proportional to ν2, rather than to ν."
"It has occurred quite frequently, at least in the field of magnetic recording theory, that theories or models were judged by experiments conducted beyond the validity limits of the theory or model in question. Experiments conducted within the validity limits of the Zenner model show the importance of the proper selection of the parameter values used for the measurement, and in addition, justify this early explanation of the magnetic recording process."
"The fast Fourier transform is employed in the design of replica correlation algorithms for application in narrow-band and wide-band active FM sonar. A discrete analog of the narrow-band heterodyne correlator is presented and modified such as to lead to an efficient technique for wide-band FM where several time-compressed references are required."
"A power amplifier circuit is presented which uses silicon n-p-n and germanium p-n-p power transistors, and which requires no bias adjustment or selection of transistors. A wide range of power output is available, the circuit is temperature stable, and distortion is very low."
"Previous work on computation of coherence estimates between two time series and the confidence intervals about these estimates has always assumed that the time series have a Gaussian probability density function. Here a Monte Carlo study was performed, computing coherences and confidence intervals upon non-Gaussian time series. Using both a rectangular distribution and a x2distribution with one degree of freedom, the results appear to justify the notion that the assumption of a Gaussian distribution has a fairly small importance in the computation of the above statistics."
"Multiplication of the instantaneous frequency of a speech signal is studied by computer simulation. Interest centers on a simple means for compressing and expanding the time dimension of the signal, and for scaling the envelope of its short-time spectrum. Simulation of the process indicates that the speech formant dominant in intensity \"captures\" the multiplication. In the multiplied signal, the frequency of the dominant formant is multiplied, but the frequency spacings between the dominant formant and other formants remain the same as in the original signal. Stretching the time scale of the multiplied signal by the appropriate factor restores the dominant formant to its correct frequency position, but no other formant is correctly restored. By the same result, a scaling distortion of the spectral envelope (for example, as in speech produced in a He-O atmosphere)cannot be restored by instantaneous frequency division of the broad-band signal. A two-format model of the speech signal is used to analyze instantaneous frequency multiplication. Calculations on the model are consistent with spectra obtained from the computer-processed real speech."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A system is described which uses a Honeywell DDP-516 computer to prepare and execute subjective evaluation tests of prerecorded speech material. The system utilizes two ordinary tape reproducers for the storage and fetching of speech samples. Both tape drives are under computer control. On-line access to any desired speech sample in the repertoire makes possible the use of sequential testing strategies. The capabilities and design limitations of the system are discussed. Two subjective investigations on the effects of the source function on speech quality have been carried out using this facility. These are described briefly."
"The IEEE Recommended Practice for Speech Quality Measurement is the product of roughly six years of study, discussion, writing, and rewriting by a diligent team of scientists representing a broad range of disciplines and research institutions. We will attempt to recognize here all those who participated, ranging from the dogged individuals who were with the committee for its entire life to those who participated in at least one meeting."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new modulation system is described by which two voice and three additional teletype subchannels are to be interlaced within a frequency range of a usual standard phone channel. In general, economical aspects govern an effective bandwidth reduction for signal communication. This becomes extremely valid for all relatively narrow-band radio links via satellites in the VHF/ UHF range. With respect to a minimum of material expense, a compact band modulation system was successfully developed and tested in a satellite link. An adequately high intelligibility could be retained at the cost of some fidelity in voice communication."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Progress is described on a reading aid for the blind which is intended to give the blind direct access to ordinary printed material. Operation principles and construction of the device are described. Recent reading performance of a subject on typed reading material is presented."
"The development of a reading machine for the blind offers insight into current problems of computer-to-man communications and poses a technical and humanitarian challenge. Approaches to the problem include compiled speech, reformed speech, and synthesis by rule. Of these methods, synthesis by rule may offer the best long-term trade-off between quality of the speech and cost and complexity of its production. Implementation of a high-performance reading machine will involve a central service facility that can generate tape recordings or provide voice responses to remote print scanners. Technical problems, especially in providing remote on-line service, seem formidable, but the organizational problems of matching central facilities to the blind user's needs may prove to be even more so."
"The problem of acoustic transmission of speech sounds to the deaf is discussed along with the related educational problems. Some methods of speech analysis which have been developed as prototypes of new speech aids are presented. Two types of new aids are covered: 1) tactual aids to speech communication, and 2) visual aids for monitoring of speech in speech training or to supplement speech reception."
"A machine with unrestricted vocabulary, that is capable of converting printed text into connected speech in real time, would be extremely useful to blind people. The problems in implementing such a machine are mainly 1) character recognition, 2) conversion of the symbolic form of written language into a symbolic form of spoken language, and 3) synthesis of connected speech from the symbolic description. The character recognition must be highly accurate, although high speed is not necessary. The language in spoken form may be symbolically represented by strings of segmental phonemes, together with additional specifications at phrase and sentence or suprasegmental levels. The segmental phonemes characterize the basic speech sound elements, and the suprasegmental specifications characterize intonation, stress, and pauses. For a restricted vocabulary, a spelling to pronouncing dictionary indicating pronunciation, as well as spelling, can be used to obtain the segmental phonemes; however, for an unrestricted vocabulary in a language like English, a scheme employing a dictionary that indicates the elements of words (prefixes, suffixes, and roots), together with a set of rules for word formation, is necessary and more economical. Since suprasegmental specifications depend upon sentence structure, sentence analysis, or parsing, must be performed to identify essential groups. The construction of a speech synthesizer may be based on the terminal transfer characteristic of the human vocal tract as a whole, or it may be based on the transfer characteristics of a cascade of many sections of variable cross-section area acoustic tubes which simulate the vocal tract. Speech synthesis-by-rule is the generation, according to a set of predetermined rules, of the variable parameters of a speech synthesizer as functions of time from an input of segmental and suprasegmental specifications."
"Attempts to develop special aids for speech communication and speech correction of severely hard-of-hearing or totally deaf persons have been going on since the beginning of the 1920's. For information transmission, the auditory, tactual, and visual senses have been used. These aids have in many cases been called \"sensory aids for the deaf\" in analogy with the \"sensory aids for the blind\" that make it possible for the blind to read ordinary letters, perceive obstacles, and so on. Recently, the name \"speech analyzing aids\" has been suggested, which seems to be more adequate, as some types of speech analyzing techniques are used in contrast to the linear amplification used in most ordinary hearing aids. In the development of \"speech analyzing aids for the deaf\" two problems must be considered: 1) Which elements of the speech signals ought to be automatically extracted and transmitted to the deaf subject? 2) What kind of signals and which sense modality shall be used for the transmission of the extracted speech information? Speech is learned by imitation which means that an efficient aid for speech perception also can be used for speech learning. However, in several respects it is better to treat aids for speech correction and speech perception as separate problems. Here, for the most part, only aids for speech perception will be discussed. An attempt will be made to summarize the development in this area and to discuss published results from experiments with different types of equipment. Some suggestions for future experiments will be given."
"Discrimination of conventional (linear) and frequency transposed (coded) forms of amplified speech by deaf children were studied in a series of twelve experiments. Findings relating to each are presented. Results indicate that coded speech can be discriminated but that scores for linearly amplified speech are generally superior. The implications of the results are examined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The broad bandwidth and long storage lifetimes of Nd3+: glass and ruby lasers have made possible the generation of picosecond laser pulses having peak powers it excess of one gigawatt and repetition rates in the microwave range. The numerous application areas of these pulses include research in nonlinear optics, transient response of atomic and molecular systems, optically generated plasmas, spectroscopy, ranging, optical information processing, and high-speed photography. This paper reviews several experimental techniques for generating, measuring, and utilizing these ultrashort laser pulses."
"A study was made of the gradual degradation in the output of GaAs injection lasers in the course of operation at 300°K and below. The degradation process was found to be a bulk, rather than a surface, effect during which the near-field emission patterns decrease in uniformity. Except in rare cases, there is no external evidence of mechanical damage to the devices. This has been confirmed by scanning electron microscopy observations of the facets before and after gradual degradation. Softening of the I-V characteristics occurs in addition to increases in the threshold current density and decreases in both the stimulated and the spontaneous exterior differential efficiency. No evidence was found for significant changes in either the junction impurity profile or the optical emission spectra. From a detailed analysis of the change in the threshold currents and the efficiency, it is concluded that the internal quantum efficiency is gradually reduced during laser operation. This decrease is primarily attributed to the formation of nonradiative recombination centers in the recombination region. In addition, the optical loss is increased in some lasers. An evaluation of the factors affecting the degradation rate indicates that it is a superlinear function of the current density of operation. Furthermore, the degradation rate is strongly influenced by the initial junction quality--lasers which initially exhibit highly nonuniform emission patterns degrade faster than those which are relatively uniform."
"A new electric field controlled reflective optical storage effect has been discovered in mixed nematic-cholesteric liquid crystal systems. Ion motion produced by a dc electric field is used to emulsify the initially transparent mixture and give it a milky white appearance. This state remains after the dc signal is removed. The material can be returned to its initial state by applying an audio-frequency signal. The reflective contrast ratio of 7 to 1, flat construction, low voltage and power writing capability, and storage with continuous readout requiring no maintaining power make the new effect seem attractive for indicator-type applications using solid state addressing circuitry."
"A simple, unified theory of normal mode analysis of networks is presented. Unlike previous treatments, the present treatment does not rely on any particular method of formulation of equilibrium equations, nor on any detailed results of matrix theory. Rather, it is based on Tellegen's theorem, an elementary consequence of the Kirchhoff laws. Using the latter, together with a uniqueness theorem and a result concerning the number of modes in a network, all of the usual results of the normal mode analysis are obtained, namely, the decomposition of free and forced behavior into normal modes and the equations of motion of a set of normal coordinates and their relation to the network variables. The results are used to calculate the equations governing the behavior of coupled networks. While the detailed results are developed for the RLC network, the general nature of the approach allows extension of the results to a much wider class of networks and systems."
"Solutions for the steady-state behavior of TEM, TE, and TM waves in an infinite conducting medium moving at a uniform velocity are presented, along with relations between the time average power transmitted through the medium, power dissipated in the medium, and power delivered to an external mechanical load that maintains the medium at a constant velocity. Exact solutions valid at any velocity are obtained using the Lorentz transformation. It is shown that the TEM and TE modes describe relativistic linear induction motors or ac MHD generators in which the usual J × B force is the dominant force mechanism. The TM mode describes a class of electroconvection devices in which the electric field acting on the induced surface charge on the interface between the medium and the air gap is the dominant force mechanism. Both the TE and the TM modes are shown to have efficiencies and force generation capabilities which are independent of the absolute value of velocity."
"The introduction of the fast Fourier transform algorithm has led to the development of the Fourier transform image coding technique whereby the two-dimensional Fourier transform of an image is transmitted over a channel rather than the image itself. This devlopement has further led to a related image coding technique in which an image is transformed by a Hadamard matrix operator. The Hadamard matrix is a square array of plus and minus ones whose rows and columns are orthogonal to one another. A high-speed computational algorithm, similar to the fast Fourier transform algorithm, which performs the Hadamard transformation has been developed. Since only real number additions and subtractions are required with the Hadamard transform, an order of magnitude speed advantage is possible compared to the complex number Fourier transform. Transmitting the Hadamard transform of an image rather than the spatial representation of the image provides a potential toleration to channel errors and the possibility of reduced bandwidth transmission."
"By eliminating skin effect through Litz techniques, the same resistance-reduction factors can be obtained through cooling of metallic conductors in the ac case as in the dc case."
"In applications where MOS transistors are used in the \"variable-resistor\" region, it is often useful to bias the bulk with respect to the source in order to control the dc value of the channel resistance. What this biasing of the substrate means for the small signal coefficients--the mutual conductance and the amplification factor--is calculated, and agreement between calculated and measured values is shown."
"A misunderstanding is corrected regarding the effect of phase mismatch on the gain in traveling-wave parametric amplifiers. It is shown that gains greater than unity can be obtained even when the signal and idler waves do not grow exponentially."
"A cascade of nonreciprocal all-pass networks, each consisting of a variable gyrator bridged by a transmission line, is used to produce an adjustable ideal delay. The total delay is adjusted in discrete increments by electrically varying the conductances of individual gyrators in the cascade."
"A direct method of determining Vpfor a depletion-mode FET is presented and compared with the values determined from a square-law transfer characteristic, the output characteristic, and the cutoff of drain current. The accuracy of the direct method makes it a useful technique for the screening and matching of devices."
"FM noise spectra measurements were performed on a Gunn oscillator under injection-locked conditions. The experimental results have shown good agreement with the theory not only qualitatively but quantitatively."
"The principle of a new system for low-loss laser beam transmission through an iteration of lenses tilted at the Brewster angle is proposed, and the result of a preliminary experiment is discussed."
"An efficient method for calculating the mean values and standard deviations of spectral estimates and decision variables is described which utilizes Kellogg's numerical method for calculating correlation functions of quantized random waveforms. The method and computer program are designed to explore the interaction between sampling (i.e., aliasing) and quantization effects."
"A new type of ring coupler is propsed in which the coupling coefficient is controlled by the length of the arms. It is thought these rings may be profitably employed for breadbroads (thanks to ease of construction) and for hybrid integrated circuits, since very tight values of coupling are most easily accomplished."
"Closed form solutions are given for the maximum efficiency of idlerless multipliers with step recovery diodes. The multiplication factor is arbitrary."
"Described here is a microwave amplitude modulator that uses two GaAs0.85P0.15transferred electron diodes. The modulator remains matched for all depth of modulation, and requires a control voltage of only 0 to 4 volts."
"An analytic (parametric) integration of Langmuir's equation for spherical space-charge flow has been obtained. The analytic expression for the voltage distribution is expanded for both large and small ratios of cathode to anode radius. The usefulness and form of the resulting precise expressions are compared with Langmuir's empirical results."
"The choice of the focal length of the transmitter in an optical system is analyzed, using the formula for the transferred power as a basis."
"A formulation of a Liapunov function is given for the stability study of a sixth-order system characterized by a nonlinear function φ(x). Fifth-order and fourth-order systems with a nonlinear function φ(x) are given as special cases."
"An X-band FM deviator with a Gunn diode has been developed which can be tuned from 9.8 to 10.5 GHz by a 2.7 volt change in bias voltage, with an output power of greater than +10.5 dBm over the band flat to within 2 dB. High-speed operations employing a 224 Mbit/s (megabits per second) pulse pattern generator have shown that the deviator is capable of following the input signal."
"An electron source based on the multipactoring principle and preliminary experimental results are described. Several uses of such a gun are suggested."
"Recovery of power spectral density information on surface roughness by use of optical processing methods is discussed and a technique for accomplishing this with relative ease is pointed out."
"Light diffraction from spatially periodic temperature variations in a transparent solid is reported. Local microwave heating at the antinodes of a standing wave diffracts light; thus a determination of dielectric constant by measurement of the microwave phase velocity is possible."
"Octave electronic tuning of CW Gunn diodes using a YIG sphere has been achieved in the range 6 to 18 GHz. Output power exceeded 50 mW throughout the range 6.9 to 8.5 GHz for narrower-band operation."
"Simplified design charts are presented for the selection of focused beam interferometer source and antenna parameters for plasma diagnostics. Tradeoffs that can be utilized to accomplish given requirements, as well as practical limitations, are clearly shown."
"This letter reports ac electroluminescence in vacuum evaporated CdS films of 4000 Å thickness, having gold electrodes. A postevaporation treatment is used to process the CdS films, whereby electroluminescence is obtained. Copper and sodium chloride are used as activators. High ac voltages, near 1 kV, across a large gap are necessary to produce a small amount of luminescence."
"The extension of the side-looking coherent radar concept to bistatic stationary forms, similar to Gabor's orightal hologram arrangement, is suggested."
"It is shown that the magnitude of voltage reflection coefficient |ρ| occurring in transmission line theory can exceed unity even for a passive load, and the necessary and sufficient conditions for such an occurrence are investigated. Expressions for the maximum values of |ρ| obtainable for a line of a given characteristic impedance, and the load impedance necessary to produce this value of |ρ|, are given. It is shown that the separation of the time-averaged power into the sum of the so-called incident and reflected powers has a limited range of validity and that when such a separation is physically meaningful, the fact that the magnitude of the reflected power is less than the incident is quite evident, as is to be expected for a passive load."
"The relative response time delay at different surface points on the photocathode of a photomultiplier tube was measured by determining the relative modulation phase shift of modulated light. The measurements were made on a different type of photomultiplier tube than previously reported measurements, and results were very dissimilar."
"A practical method is presented for realizing time-varying circuit components whose instantaneous element values depend on externally generated digital control signals. These signals control the value of a discrete-state resistor in an operational amplifier circuit. The method was used to realize linear time-varying inductors and capacitors which were built and tested."
"Contourographic display has been demonstrated to be a useful method for optimizing the electrical parameters of a television microscope. Resolution at the optical limit was obtained over a 20 by 20 µm field at wavelengths of illumination covering the visible spectrum."
"It is suggested that the writing of digital filter synthesis programs utilizing the bilinear transformation technique can be simplified by using existing FFT (fast Fourier transform) subroutines."
"The density of free charge carriers is an important parameter for magnetomicrowave effects in semiconductor. In this study the density of the charge carriers is varied by the photogeneration of additional carriers and is used as an independent variable for the investigation of magneto-microwave effects in Ge and CdS at 38 GHz."
"A method is developed of optimizing a code for data compression by run length encoding. The performance of this code (13.20 compression factor) is then compared with the theoretically attainable compression based on the information content of the probability distribution of run lengths."
"The backscattered signal spectrum is determined for uniformly spaced particles moving through the near zone of a Gaussian beam. The spectrum of the signal reveals the manner in which the Gaussian spectrum obtained for a single particle becomes more complex when there are many particles."
"The amount of information transmitted about a bandlimited signal, when it is approximated by a finite number of terms of its cardinal series expansion, has been calculated. A bound for the mean square error between the two functions defined above, required for our analysis, has also been obtained."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Lasers can now be regarded as practical and economic tools with unique properties which have been utilized effectively in several applications in industry. Major applications of the laser are in thermal processes and measurements. Large amounts of concentrated energy allow microdrilling, welding, cutting, and fracturing to be simply effected in even the hardest materials. The coherence properties provide ideal sources for alignment instruments and interferometers for accurate length measurement. This paper describes these applications and their typical capabilities. Future developments and their potential are discussed, with the conclusion that the laser will be increasingly used in the manufacturing environment."
"A new approach to the measurement of the statistical characteristics of physical data is presented. This approach exploits a novel use of a storage oscilloscope of the bistable type to display equiprobability lines on the oscilloscope screen. The first- and second-order probability density and distribution functions and the autocorrelation and cross-correlation functions of stationary random processes can be measured. Although the accuracy of the methods is limited, they provide a convenient \"quick look\" at the statistical characteristics of physical data. The frequency range is quite large, extending to megahertz in all cases."
"The paper discusses the properties of display systems using frequency rather than time coding of the individual image elements. Various coding techniques, all making use of a dispersive delay line, are compared by means of time-frequency diagrams showing the nature of the coding operation. A detailed analysis is given of one such technique used in conjunction with an acoustic light diffraction cell as the display device. Experimental results for this system are presented in the form of measured modulation transfer functions and photographs of standard television test patterns displayed with this technique."
"The radiation protection guide (RPG) number of 10 mW/cm2is generally accepted for normal environmental conditions. For conditions of moderate to severe heat stress, the guide number should be appropriately reduced. A proposal to reduce the guide number one mW/cm2for every temperature-humidity-index (THI) point above 70 (until 1 mW/cm2is reached) is examined in terms of heat stress."
"The properties of a piezoelectric crystal unit as a circuit element are characterized and defined, in terms of a general equivalent circuit that is valid at any frequency up to and including the lower UHF ranges but reduces to the conventional equivalent circuit if the parameters are properly redefined. The characteristic values such as resonance frequency and resistance, parallel resonance frequency and resistance, etc., for a crystal unit with or without other reactive elements in series and/or parallel are tabulated and their significance is illustrated with the aid of the crystal impedance and admittance diagrams. These diagrams are also used in deriving and describing the methods to be followed when determining the crystal equivalent circuit parameters by impedance bridge measurements. Techniques are developed for use with various types of impedance and admittance bridges and the relations required to determine the resonance resistance R1, resonance frequency fs, and quality factor Q0of the motional arm, and the reactance X-0of the parallel capacitance from the measured quantitites are listed. The effects of transmission lines of various lengths between the plane of measurement in the bridge and the crystal unit are fully considered. The nature and magnitude of the sources of measurement errors, exclusive of errors in bridge calibration, are examined."
"A generalized form of paired-echo analysis suitable for application to bandpass systems has been developed. This method is suitable for digital-computer application and provides an efficient technique for wave-form computation."
"Backscatter reduction by receiver time gating and transceiver geometry is estimated for an idealized transmitter-receiver system. A transition range, equal to the distance at which the receiver subtends an angle equal to its acceptance angle, is discussed. It is found that half of the total backscatter occurs before this transition range. A nomogram and a design chart for backscatter computation are derived and presented."
"An analytic closed-form expression for the transient response of an analog operational amplifier with a logarithmic feedback element is derived. The characteristic response function for a step input, in the limit of vanishingly small step size, approaches an exponential with a signal amplitude factor in the \"time constant.\""
"A method is described for the preparation of room-temperature-stable germanium radiation detectors. Some preliminary observations are presented concerning the role of materials and fabrication parameters in detector performance."
"A combinatoric argument is used to derive a diode-source analog for minimum cost flow problems."
"The scattering of E-polarized plane waves by an infinitely long axially magnetized ferrite cylinder is investigated for the case in which the radius of the cylinder is small in comparison with the wavelength of the incident wave. The scattering amplitude is found to have a maximum at a single resonant frequency whose approximate expression in terms of the physical parameters is deduced."
"A stability criterion, applicable in the analysis of a class of single-loop control systems, is derived. The loop of a system from this class of systems consists of a tandem connection of a time-varying gain; a memoryless, time-invariant, nonlinear operator; and an operator which satisfies an inner product inequality. When the operator, satisfying the inner product inequality is a linear, causal, time-invariant, convolution operator, a geometrical interpretation similar to the Popov criterion can be obtained."
"An injection-locked-oscillator FM receiver has been built in X-band waveguide using an avalanche diode oscillator. Measurements of the output voltage as a function of peak frequency deviation of the input signal were made and compared with theoretical values. Good agreement between theoretical and measured performance indicates that the avalanche diode is adequately described by the van der Pol model and that linear broad-band performance can be expected of the receiver."
"A locking figure of merit larger than 2 was achieved with 4-GHz Esaki-diode oscillators with microstrip-line structure. A typical oscillator gave a locking bandwidth of 720 MHz at a gain of 20 dB."
"A tunnel-diode switching circuit has been developed which can halve the frequency of signals over a 50 percent fractional bandwidth at center frequencies of at least 4 GHz."
"The relationship between rate of current change and temperature change in the small thermally weak region of a transistor, which is caused by thermal feedback mechanism, was discussed by Scarlett and Shockley [1] and Bergmann and Gerstner [2]. This relationship is given quantitatively as a function of the total area and stabilizing resistance of a transistor."
"Design information and operating characteristics are given for an experimental X-band cyclotron-resonance oscillator. Saturated power levels near 3 watts, at 0.8 percent efficiency, are reported. Qualitative agreement with theory has been observed under small-signal, zero-space-charge conditions."
"The use of transmission lines in an equivalent circuit as suggested by Copeland [1] (instead of the usual lumped circuit elements) has resulted in computer simulation of the multiple-frequency operation associated with LSA oscillation in GaAs [2]. This technique is useful in determining design parameters for eliminating the low-frequency subharmonic and/or maximizing efficiency. For mobilities of 6000 cm2/Vċs, efficiencies are generally less than 1 percent if a lower frequency is present, and as high as 8.4 percent when it is absent."
"SiC backward diodes which operate between 77°K and 1000°K have been developed. Figures of merit (γ√R) of 19 300, 3960, and 15 at 12.5 MHz, 50 MHz and 8.8 GHz, respectively, have been measured with detector area on the order of 10-5cm2. These results are compatible with a prior analysis which predicted an upper frequency limit of between 0.1 and 1.0 GHz for SiC backward diodes."
"This letter describes a simple fading circuit for low frequencies, using the FET as a control element. The logarithm of the output voltage is a linear function of time. Distortion is considerably reduced through a linearization circuit. The fading process can be interrupted at any moment and the rate of attenuation for each signal is maintained without change for several minutes."
"A method is presented to compute the inverse of the Hessian matrix in an optimization problem using the conjugate gradient algorithm of Hestenes and Stiefel [1]. It is shown how this may be used to refine the solution by a Newton-Raphson iteration for both finite and infinite dimensional optimization problems."
"A generalized stability criterion for a periodically time-varying system is derived. It is shown that a time-varying system with the time-varying parameters having period T is stable if and only if the eigenvalues µiof the state transition matrix at t = T, i.e., Φ(T), satisfy the condifio |µ1| < 1. The simple testing procedure is illustrated with the help of suitable examples."
"The harmonics of the probe current under the influence of a capacitively coupled disturbing voltage are discussed. From the ratio of two amplitudes the unknown RF voltage and the necessary correction of the direct current can be determined."
"The problem of linear discrete system parameter identification in the presence of noise is studied. An existing technique used in adaptive systems is examined and modification is made to solve the identification problem in the open-loop configuration."
"A device-oriented model is developed to describe the operation of the junction-gate field-effect transistor (FET) beyond pinch-off."
"A rational function with multiple poles is expanded via an auxiliary function. Such an expansion is easy, and in its successive steps it is done by inspection, with residues that occur in negative pairs."
"The low-pass prototype element values for doubly loaded Butterworth filters with 16 through 25 resonators have been calculated and tabulated. This material is of interest because of the increased use of these filters."
"A realization of Reshef's voltage-controlled tunable active filter is presented. By placing constraints on the input voltages, independent control of the null frequency is achieved through variation of a single parameter."
"The relation between the matrix corresponding to the Wronskian and the state transition matrix has been utilized to obtain a closed form of the latter in terms of roots of the-characteristic equation. The method is applicable to linear stationary systems with distinct roots."
"A method of producing three-dimensional slides and/or diagrams is described."
"The geometry of scimitar antennas is very difficult to work with in calculation of its field. In this letter, the geometry is transformed in various steps so that the resulting representation is simple and reasonable for solution of its field problem by solving the boundary value problem."
"The case of multiple conduction in a series type multiplier using an ideal step-recovery diode is discussed, and computed results are given which contradict earlier work. It is also shown that multiple conduction does not necessarily contribute to jump phenomena."
"An algorithm is presented for selecting a sequence of similarity transformations which successively reduce the norm of the difference between the transformed matrix and a desired form. The algorithm is useful in reducing the cost of simulating the transient response of linear, time-invariant, dynamical systems on the digital computer and can be used to produce canonical forms."
"A frequency shift of the sampled signal spectrum equal to half the sampling frequency is considered for digital filtering. The application to an efficient bandpass analysis is described. Some experimental results are reported."
"Contrary to recently reported results, centripetal acceleration in a current loop is shown not to result in an azimuthal, inverse-square magnetic field."
"A dc-coupled unity-gain buffer amplifier capable of zero offset is described. Using a dual MOST device in a bootstrapped differential source-follower configuration, together with a monolithic integrated circuit amplifier, it has an input current of 13 × 10-15A and a 3 dB bandwidth of 4 MHz. Drift is approximately 100 µV/°C and input capacity 0.4 pF."
"A correction to a limitation on frequency of Gunn oscillations is suggested."
"From an unknown signal plus noise, we consider the difference in amplitude between the quantized output and the signal plus mean value of the noise. Whatever the width of the quantizer step and the probability density distribution of the noise, the probability density distribution of the final error is evaluated exactly."
"A microwave motor operating at 10 GHz is discussed, and it is shown that at these very high frequencies the construction of the motor can be simplified. A motor working on a push-pull principle is also described."
"The definition of the ideal gyrator is modified to take account of the time delay that always accompanies it in actual realizations. Four types of ideal gyrators are introduced and their properties are discussed."
"The reliability of Gunn diodes is greatly improved by using device structures which prevent high-field domains from reaching the anode."
"Experimental results are reported for X-band Gunn devices operated in the hybrid mode of Huang and MacKenzie. The high efficiency observed on one diode (22 percent at 19.15 W of peak power) is, to the best of our knowledge, the highest reported in this frequency range. Comparison of our results with theoretical calculations by Huang and MacKenzie is made."
"Optically induced refractive index inhomogeneities (optical damage) in single crystal bismuth titanate (Bi4Ti3O12) have been observed by the method of forming holograms inside the crystal. The maximum index change induced by light at 4880 Å wavelength is approximately 10-5and lasts for a few minutes at room temperature."
"A one-dimensional computer simulation was made for a Gunn diode with a distributed capacitance electrode on the side of the element. If the capacitance exceeds a critical value, a static high-field domain is formed near the anode, and Gunn oscillation is inhibited."
"Data have been obtained for RF voltage breakdown in air for the 50 Ω coaxial transmission line configuration and are presented in a unified, concise, and practical plot."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"From a large number of rocket, satellite, and ground-based experiments since 1959 it is known that the electron and ion gases of the middle and upper ionosphere are substantially hotter than the neutral atmosphere. At low and midgeomagnetic latitudes the principal heating agent for the ionospheric plasma lies in the excess kinetic energy given to photoelectrons arising from the ionization of the atmospheric gases by solar ultraviolet radiation. Although the photoelectrons lose most of their kinetic energy in the excitation of atomic and molecular gases, a significant amount of energy is given to the ambient Maxwellian electron gas, increasing its temperature above that of the neutral gases. The ion gases, in contrast, appear to be heated almost entirely through the elastic collisions with ambient electrons so that the ion temperature generally lies between the electron and neutral temperatures. The calculation of theoretical temperature profiles has developed into a moderately sophisticated process with a fair degree of correspondence between predicted and observed values for undisturbed geophysical conditions. Current research emphasizes the global aspects of plasma temperatures and the connection between ionospheric and magnetospheric phenomena. However, many of the observed diurnal and seasonal variations in both electron and ion temperatures depend upon the couplings between the neutral and ionized atmospheres, and a complete understanding of all aspects of the ionospheric thermal balance is not possible at the present time."
"A short description of the Owl satellite TV camera system and of several unique design features used with the secondary electron conduction (SEC) camera tube is presented. The dependence of the SNR on the scanning speed is analyzed, and the SNR is maximized for an amplifier employing a low noise field-effect transistor. The optimum scanning speed corresponds to an amplifier using a bandwidth of 8 kHz and a gate biasing resistor of a value in excess of 250 MΩ. To satisfy the requirements of optimum scan rate and low data telemetry bandwidth, an intermittent scanning procedure is employed in which the scanning beam touches the unscanned area of the target in a fraction of the scanning time only. This procedure combines the advantages of low noise level and high efficiency charge removal in a single scan. The single exposure scan feature reduces the efficiency of the TV system unless a small bias illumination is applied on the photosensitive surface to avoid the ineffiencies caused by the velocity distribution of the scanning beam."
"In the design of sonar systems it is desirable to compute the acoustic radiation field at the transducer surface, upon which all the significant radiation properties (radiation impedance, beam patterns, etc.) depend. Like other practical array geometries of interest, the finite cylinder does not belong to the class of separable coordinate surfaces of the Helmholtz equation, and consequently, the acoustic field for this geometry cannot be determined analytically. In this paper the surface field is computed numerically from the interior Helmholtz integral equation by the method of weighted residuals. Since the pressure fields over the three surfaces of the finite cylinder must coincide along the locii of intersection between the cylindrical surface and the end caps, the interior Helmholtz integral equation must he constrained to meet this requirement. The matrix representation of this equation which is not self-adjoint is solved by the method of least squares. This enables the constraints to be introduced via Lagrange multipliers. The procedure is used to calculate the surface pressure and radiation impedance of the finite cylinder for a range of axis ratios (diameter/length) and frequencies of interest in sonar applications. Calculations of the radiation resistance and the directivity index determined in this manner are shown to differ from those previously evaluated from the far-field solution. The weighted-residual methods considered are shown to have excellent convergence properties which make them more versatile than alternative numerical methods for solving the problem."
"This paper reviews the fundamentals of circuit interruption from both a scientific and an engineering viewpoint. The paper starts by discussing the interaction between a circuit interrupter and its associated power system. It then proceeds to describe the different methods of arc interruption. These first two parts form the background for the main purpose of this paper: to review the scientific understanding of arc interruption. Since the common ingredient in all circuit interrupters is the electric arc, the understanding of the process of circuit interruption is closely related to the scientific understanding of the behavior of arcs under both steady-state and transient conditions. Recent progress it this area is reviewed. Since arc interruption is a process during which a gas is changed from a high-temperature conducting state to a low-temperature insulating state, the knowledge of electrical breakdown of high-temperature gases is of fundamental importance, and this subject is discussed in some detail. References are provided for further study."
"The AN/FPS-85 is a large operational UHF phased array radar designed and constructed for the U. S. Air Force by the Bendix Communications Division, Bendix Corporation. This paper gives a description of the radar's operation, some insight into the system design, pictures of actual hardware, a summary of system testing, and a project summary."
"A recently derived formula for intermodulation amplitudes in a power series nonlinearity involved a multiple summation with many terms. An iterative scheme is presented for performing the summation which greatly reduces computing time, thereby making the formula practical even for cases where the input amplitudes are not small."
"A method is presented which saves computation time when determining the response of an arbitrary linear time-invariant system, where several input-output responses are desired. The method is based on an assumption that the system input is band-limited."
"Mechanically tunable K-band Gunn oscillators have been made which yield up to 120 mW of CW power at 24.8 GHz with an efficiency of 5.2 percent."
"The results of the observations of current waveforms of the resonant domain mode and the LSA mode are presented. The drift current which is very characteristic of the LSA oscillation is experimentally revealed by the subtraction of the displacement current from the total current, thereby confirming the oscillation of the LSA mode."
"An up-converter with gain and stabilized frequency can be realized through the sideband locking of an IMPATT oscillator. An up-converter with a gain of 13.3 dB (microwave to microwave) and an output power of 13.3 dBm over the bandwidth 30 MHz is realized and operated at 10.18 GHz."
"Three methods for determining the statistics of a surface's roughness are proposed. All three use some variation of the phase contrast method, and all appear to have advantages over a recently suggested method."
"Radar-signal processing is an interesting application of optical correlators. A simplified optical correlator is described and experimental results are presented."
"Passive linear electronic filtering systems are often assumed to be characterized by time-invariant impulse responses. It is shown that due to vignetting, their optical analog, the general coherent optical Fourier processor, is represented by a function analogous to a time-varying response. Hence, the usual convolution integral cannot be applied to it. Limits are also given on the maximum size of the input functions with respect to the aperture of the Fourier-transforming lenses. For \"band-limited\" Fourier filter functions, the impulse response becomes analogous to being time invariant for input sizes within specified bounds. These bounds represent a tradeoff between input size and bandwidth."
"A novel method for obtaining the transient response of a linear time-invariant system is presented. The main advantages of this method are that it eliminates the evaluation of the eigenvalues and also involves a minimal number of numerical steps. The method is illustrated by a specific example."
"Current and voltage waveforms of the Si IMPATT diode were observed directly by means of the oscillating circuit using microstrip line. The results indicate that the conventional small-signal theory cannot be applied to the observed type of oscillation. The oscillation starts at the bias voltage just above the breakdon voltage of the diode; then along with its buildup, the bias voltage is lowered owing to the auto-bias effect, to reach a steady value considerably below the breakdown voltage. Large amplitude oscillation of high efficiency is expected over a wide frequency range."
"A practical method of designing narrow-band 70 MHz IF filters is described. The method is simple and straightforward and requires only a desk calculator. Experimental results of filters designed by this method agree well with their theoretical characteristics."
"The static current-voltage characteristics of silicon p+-n-n+diodes in avalanche have been measured and compared with theoretical predictions. The incremental negative resistance which is present causes the formation of high current density filaments."
"The use and limitations of liquid crystals for photographically recording microwave holograms are discussed."
"The problem of finding the steady-state solution x(t) of the equation P^x(t) = Q^f(t) is studied, where f(t) is a periodical excitation, and P^and Q^are ordinary linear differential operators with constant coefficients For this purpose, a Green's function is constructed, which is the solution of the problem when the excitation f(t) consists of periodically applied pulses. This Green's function is then used in a convolution integral to find the steady-state solution for any periodical f(t)."
"Generation of stable sinusoidal oscillations of fairly good waveform has been realized in a basic multivibrator circuit by optimizing load and coupling elements and introducing an amplitude defining mechanism with the use of emitter coupling. The resulting differential operation introduces an inherent tendency of self-compensation against changes of active circuit parameters, and the frequency remains practically independent of temperature change even though transistors are used."
"An existing technique for analyzing the spreading of an electron beam in a drift space is extended to be valid for regions with an arbitrary variation of potential. Equations enabling the complete profile of the beam to be computed are presented."
"A technique is proposed for multiple information storage in a sampled hologram in long-wavelength holographies. An experiment on the proposed technique is conducted to construct a hologram using 15 kHz sound waves and to reconstruct images using laser light."
"The steady-state response of any differential equation is a polynomial of the same degree as the input if the coefficients of the differential equation are so chosen that all the roots of the characteristic equation have nonzero negative real parts. If the order of the differential equation is the same as the degree of the input function, then under the steady-state condition the input and its derivatives can he obtained from the output and its derivatives which are readily available from the analog setup simulating the differential equation. From this a delayed or an advanced function can he generated by using Maclaurin's series expansion. The transient period of the scheme can be adjusted by a proper choice of the coefficients of the differential equation."
"The two different types of self-locking in TEM01+ TEM10modes with multiple longitudinal modes were observed in a He-Ne laser. In the locked state of the first type, two transverse modes are locked separately and the relative heights of adjacent pulses change with the measuring position on the modes. In the locked state of the second type, the transerse modes are quenched alternately, and the relative heights of adjacent pulses are the same on any part of the modes."
"A means is discussed for providing automatic equalization for digital repeatered lines that use paired cable. The circuit realization described will produce satisfactory eye openings for various gauge cable pairs provided the loss variation at the Nyquist frequency is held between 6 and 36 dB."
"Microstripline circuits were constructed which control the oscillating frequency of Gunn diodes prepared with various GaAs slices to within ±0.7 percent. An output of at least 17.3 mW is achievable using the circuits and fabrication techniques described."
"It is pointed out that PR sequences (words) generated by linear shift registers, with n stages, may be used in a reactance modulator to obtain 2n- 1 different carrier frequencies distributed in time in a known but more or less random sequence, each frequency repeating after an interval of 2n- 1."
"A slightly noncompensated electron-hole plasma will have a wave propagation cutoff for propagation along an impressed dc magnetic field at a value of field which depends on the degree of noncompensation, the frequency, and the carrier mass density."
"If the bilateral Laplace transform of f(t) is in the form of a rational function FII(S) = anSn-1+ an-1Sn-2+ ... + a1/Sn+ b1Sn-1+ ... + bn, then it is shown that f(k-1)(0+) - f(k-1)(0-) = (-1)k - 1Δk, where f(k)(t) is the kth derivative of f(t), Δ1= an, and Δk= Σi=1k-1(-1)i+1biΔk-i+ (-1)k-1an-k+1, k = 2, 3, ..., n."
"A numerical method is presented for calculating the cumulative distribution of a positive random variable from its moment-generating function. It involves an expansion of the rectangular function in Laguerre functions. As examples, the cumulative exponential and cumulative Poisson probability functions are approximated."
"Experimental observations recently reported by Birubaum and Fincher for a ruby laser pumped by a pulsed argon-ion laser are theoretically interpreted. Remarkable agreement between theory and experiment is obtained for the characteristic time constants when the two trains of spikes are assumed to be produced by the p = 0 and p = 1 modes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A simple phase-screen technique has been used to derive statistical characterizations of the perturbations imposed upon a wave (plane, spherical, or beamed) propagating through a random medium. The method is essentially physical rather than mathematical; its application is limited only by the weak-scattering approximation, a limitation which is important only for long optical or acoustical paths. No other wavelength restriction is imposed. Situations treated include arbitrary path geometries, finite transmitting and receiving apertures, anisotropic or lossy media, and polarization effects. Results include, in addition to the usual statistical quantities, time-lagged functions, mixed functions involving phase and amplitude fluctuations, angle-of-arrival covariances, frequency covariance, and other higher order quantities."
"This paper demonstrates that a focused beam wave may be effectively used to probe the atmospheric turbulence. Unlike plane and spherical waves, the focused beam has two parameters, i.e., the beam size and the radius of curvature of phase front at the aperture which may be easily varied experimentally. General formulations for the amplitude and phase correlation functions and structure functions of a focused beam wave are given including the effects of wind velocity and time delay. The effects of the beam size and the focal length on the spectral and spatial filter functions and temporal frequency spectrum are examined in detail including the effects of separation, wind velocity, and time delay. Using these functions, procedures are shown to probe the form of the spectral density of the index of refraction, the structure constant, and the wind velocity along the path."
"A procedure for determining the optical strength of turbulence of the atmosphere and the wind velocity at various altitudes by measuring the spatial and temporal covariance of scintillation is developed. Emphasis is placed on the development of the formal relationships that have to be inverted to obtain the desired results. For determination of optical strength of turbulence, it is a linear integral equation that is developed. However, for determination of remote wind velocity, a nonlinear integral equation is obtained. A computer approach for solving each of the equations is suggested. The configuration and performance requirements of the measurement apparatus are discussed."
"A new approach is presented to the formulation and understanding of the problem of electromagnetic scatter from a slightly perturbed continuous medium. The problem is expressed in terms of periodic functions instead of conventional power series. From this formulation, specular properties are observed that are not obtainable from older considerations. The approach was verified with a laboratory experiment using microwave transmission lines with length-dependent, slowly varying dielectric cross sections. Further experiments were carried out using backscatter from a radar designed to detect clear air turbulence. The primary result shows that a turbulent medium can be replaced for the purposes of scatter calculation by a structure of finite periodicities because the medium acts as a lumped insertion loss, the stopping characteristics being determined by a spectral scale in the turbulence. The formulation defines the limits of knowledge about the medium and shows that, although it is not unique, some knowledge of the structure is obtainable. Insight is gained into the work needed to understand and interpret remote probe experiments."
"Passive remote sensing at microwave frequencies has applications which range from meteorology to oceanography and geology. The meteorological applications are the most fully developed and include measurements of the temperature profile of the atmosphere and of the atmospheric distribution of H2O and O3. Such measurements can he made from space or from the ground by utilizing the microwave resonances of O2, H2O, and O3which occur near 1-cm wavelength. Although infrared observations permit similar meteorological measurements, such optical devices are much more sensitive to aerosols and clouds. The small but finite nonresonant attenuation of most moderate clouds at microwave frequencies also permits their liquid water content to be estimated. At wavelengths longer than 2 cm the microwave properties of the terrestrial surface dominate observations from space, and measurements as a function of polarization and viewing angle yield information about surface temperature and emissivity. Such measurements of the ocean should also permit the sea state to he inferred. The review has two major parts. The first part reviews the physics of the interactions, the mathematics of data interpretation, and the instrumentation currently available. The second part is applications-oriented and emphasizes the types, accuracy, and relevance of possible meteorological measurements."
"Microwave brightness temperatures for the case of downward viewing from above the earth's atmosphere over water for the 1- to 2-cm wavelength range are calculated for comparison with observations. A model of the troposphere which contains homogeneous layer clouds of varied thickness and liquid water content is used to compute estimates of the influence which clouds would have on real observations. It is assumed that only pure absorption is important for the cloud droplet-size distributions and droplet densities used. Results of the computations indicate that most water clouds will contribute a measurable amount to the microwave emission of the atmosphere and, in some cases, can be the principal source of received radiation. Comparisons of the computed cases with measurements obtained with a high flying aircraft are shown to be in reasonable agreement. These results are significant because they demonstrate that water clouds cannot be neglected in the application of passive microwave techniques to remote probing of the earth's atmosphere and because they indicate that quantitative measures of cloud liquid water contents and cloud thickness might be acquired through multi-frequency measurements."
"Simultaneous measurements have been made on a 3.57- km line-of-sight atmospheric path using a phase quadrature technique at 10.4 GHz, plus a combination of near-infrared and 23.8-GHz transmissometers operating in oxygen and water vapor absorption bands, respectively. The latter two systems provide the separate dry and wet terms of integrated radio refractivity for use in interpretation of the 10.4-GHz phase data. Direct measurement of the statistics of the phase quadrature components of the incoherent scattered field yields several incoherent field parameters not obtained before in line-of-sight experiments. The usefulness of these parameters for atmospheric characterization is being investigated. On this short path the incoherent field is primarily at phase quadrature to the coherent field, and this component is normally distributed, implying a predominantly near-field situation. The postulated decrease of the ratio of quadrature component variances, and of their cross correlation, with spectral frequency has been verified. The agreement noted between transmissometer data and 10.4-GHz phase data in the near field transfers to agreement with 10.4-GHz amplitude data in the far field. This difference, noted in a comparison of measurement spectra, is a helpful analytical tool in the characterization of the atmospheric turbulence wave number spectrum."
"A pair of satellites in the same earth orbit but separated by about 60° in phase will have a radio path between them that intersects the atmosphere continuously. With a coherent transponder between satellites at a frequency of 5 GHz, changes of 3 cm in the phase path can be recorded, giving a sensitivity to changes in atmospheric density of 1:18 000. With a set of six satellites to sense density at five levels, sufficient resolution is acquired to define the vertical density profile for weather prediction equations. Three such systems in polar orbit will give the necessary world-wide resolution every 12 hours. Actual motion of the satellites due to orbit perturbations can be corrected for, giving air pressure accuracy better than 3 mbars with existing knowledge of the earth's gravity and with long term averaging of data from the satellites' own transponders. Below about 7 km, correction must be made for water vapor effects on the radio waves. Several techniques are available to extend the desired precision down to 5 km and may be able to give the necessary corrections down to 3 km."
"Observations of radar echoes from the clear atmosphere are presented and the scattering mechanisms responsible for the two basic types of clear-air echoes are discussed. The commonly observed dot echo originates from a point in space and usually shows little variation in echo intensity over periods of about 0.1 second. The results of the most recent investigations of these clear-air dot targets are consistent with the conclusion that most, if not all, of the dot echoes are caused by insects or birds. The second type of clear-air radar echo appears diffuse in space, and signal intensities vary considerably over periods of less than 0.1 second. The echoes often occur in thin horizontal layers or as boundaries of convective activity; these are characterized by sharp gradients of refractive index. The reflectivity-wavelength dependence of these echoes is consistent with the theory of scattering by fluctuations in refractive index, and the signal intensities can be accounted for by the spectral characteristics of refractive-index variations observed directly. Some features of clear-air atmospheric structures as observed with radar are presented. These structures include thin stable inversions, convective thermals, Bénard convection cells, breaking gravity waves, and high tropospheric layers which are sufficiently turbulent to affect aircraft."
"Two new developments in radio pulse sounding of the ionosphere are described with emphasis on some advantages available from modern digital techniques. The current stage of development of a digital ionosonde (dynasonde) is illustrated, showing the effectiveness of a simple logical process for distinguishing echoes from noise. Another digital radio-sounding system, including instrumentation (the kinesonde) and data analysis methods, has been developed to provide a statistical description of ionospheric motion and microstructure. From digital recordings of the time variation of complex echo amplitude at four antennas and six frequencies, a multidimensional correlation (correloid) analysis provides a profile of the three-dimensional mean motion, random (characteristic) velocity, shape, size, anisotropy, and lifetime of irregularities in the radio echo pattern; these irregularities can be related to their counterparts in the ionosphere."
"High-resolution arrays, steerable over a sector in azimuth and elevation, can be used to sense the state of the remote ionosphere and possibly certain characteristics of the sea surface. Direction-of-arrival measurements of one-way signals or backscatter techniques can sense the presence of traveling ionospheric disturbances and determine some of their parameters. Backscatter data can provide information on HF skip distances and ionospheric plasma frequencies at long distances. Spectrum analysis of sea scatter may provide some information on sea state. These uses are illustrated by several examples."
"Radio wave echoes due to total reflection from the edge of large-scale depressions of electron density are observed by topside sounding satellites. The resulting traces on swept-frequency ionograms have a minimum frequency which is the nose of a loop-shaped trace. The nose frequency and the shape of the traces depend upon the distribution of electron density in the depression and the location of the sounder relative to the sides of the depression."
"The application of Thomson (or incoherent) Scatter observations to the study of the earth's ionosphere is described. Those aspects of theory of Thomson Scatter that have been put to practical use in ionospheric investigations are reviewed briefly and the type of radar equipment constructed for these investigations is discussed. Methods of measuring electron density, electron and ion temperatures, and ionic composition are then reviewed. Other applications of the technique--to the study of the neutral density and temperature of the upper atmosphere, drift motions, the flux density of fast photoelectrons, and the orientation of the earth's magnetic field--are also described."
"A system analysis of the feasibility of optical heterodyne measurement of Doppler shifts as a method for the remote determination of vector wind velocity is carried out. It is found that with a 50-mW laser at 6328 Å, naturally occurring aerosols in clear air will permit measurements at distances of only a few tens of centimeters; but haze and dust will extend this range to a few tens of meters and fog to 75 meters. By generating smoke to enhance the scatter, a range of about 40 meters will be achievable. The use of a 1-watt argon laser will extend the clear-air and smoke-plume ranges by a factor of 48 and the ranges in uniform dust or fog by smaller amounts. Hence useful measurements in the boundary layer of the atmosphere are possible although they will require some artificial contamination of the air to give consistently good results. Remote temperature measurement is not possible using this technique."
"Unusually detailed multipath resolution of the tropospheric-scatter medium has been obtained by incorporating Rake instrumentation into tropospheric transhorizon microwave experiments. Radio-frequency carriers at approximately 900 MHz, each binary phase-shift keyed at 10 megabauds by a pseudorandom sequence of digits and subsequently filtered to a 10-MHz bandwidth, were transmitted during separate experiments in February and in November and December, 1965, over two paths--a 480-km overland path near the eastern coast of the United States and a 614-km over-water path in the Caribbean. At the receiver an identical binary stream was used in a series of 10 cross-correlators (Rake taps) where each stream was delayed 0.1 µs with respect to the stream in the preceding tap. This provided a multipath resolution of 0.1 µs that, depending upon the path length and altitude, corresponded to a separation of the common volume into ellipsoidal shells varying in thickness from about 200 to 550 meters, The principal goal of the experiments was to record the randomly varying in-phase and quadrature components of each tap output and thus investigate the fluctuations in signal phase, as well as in amplitude, caused by fading. The test procedures also permitted multipath structure and Doppler shifts to be directly observed. Scattering functions, which clearly illustrate the distribution of received signal energy as a function of multipath time delay and Doppler frequency shift, were calculated. In contrast to a multipath time-delay spread that was ordinarily less than 1 µs for the overwater path, spreads of over 3 µs were common for the shorter, overland path. Typical fading rates and Doppler spreads were also markedly different--several fades per second over land versus one fade per several seconds over water. Although some of the observed variations can be attributed to differences in antenna size (8.5-meter diameter for over land, 18-meter diameter for over water) and pointing angle, others apparently result from different typical refractive structures (meteorological conditions) within the atmospheric common volume of the respective radio links. Doppler shifts of as much as 15 Hz, which probably resulted from off-great-circle antenna alignment, were observed on the overland but not the overwater path."
"Successful remote sensing of the lower atmosphere's refractive-structure has been demonstrated using the Rake tropospheric scatter channel-sounding technique. The detected atmospheric structures show spatial refractive inhomogeneity in the form of discrete scattering layers at different heights. Detected layer heights and crosspath wind speeds were found to be in close agreement with U. S. Weather Bureau rawinsonde data from three surrounding locations. The analysis of the radio data was based on single scattering and assumed that Doppler shifts were due primarily to the horizontal crosspath wind. Certain detected layers exhibited azimuthal dependence in agreement with classical isotropic turbulence theory. Other layers of a specular nature produced radio data that are shown to agree with an anisotropic form of the refractive space correlation function. The degree of anisotropy for one experiment was evaluated from the radio data."
"For the past several years, observations using a large number of geophysical sensors have been conducted at a site near Boulder, Colo. Data are continuously recorded on magnetic tape and have the advantages of a common time base and the availability of an on-line computer which performs data processing and controls the operation of the station. The original purpose of the installation was to study ground-based techniques for detection of high-altitude nuclear explosions. Scientific studies to which the data have been applied include the changes in the ionosphere during sudden ionospheric disturbances, ionospheric effects which appear to be related to severe thunderstorms, and the characteristics of traveling ionospheric disturbances which are believed to be related to magnetic activity. The system has the capability of automatically detecting sudden ionospheric disturbances and of providing real-time indices of ionospheric and magnetic activity."
"The potential usefulness of acoustic methods for the remote probing of the lower atmosphere is reviewed. Starting with a comparison of the effects of temperature, wind, and humidity fluctuations upon the refractive index of air to electromagnetic and acoustic waves, it is shown that the fluctuations in acoustic refractive index may be expected to be about 1000 times stronger than in the radio case. The opportunities for passive and for line-of-sight remote acoustical sensing of the troposphere offered by this relatively strong interaction are briefly identified. Since the scattered power is proportional to the square of the refractive index fluctuations, the scatter of acoustic waves may be expected to be roughly one million times stronger than for radio waves. Based on the theoretical work of Kallistratova (but including the effects of atmospheric absorption), the system parameters required for effective acoustic echo-sounding of the lower atmosphere are deduced. It is concluded that the acoustic sounding technique could be developed to monitor, to heights of at least 1500 meters, 1) the vertical profile of wind speed and direction, 2) the vertical profile of humidity, 3) the location and intensity of temperature inversions, 4) the three-dimensional spectrum of mechanical turbulence, and 5) the three-dimensional spectrum of temperature inhomogeneity (i.e., of optical refractive index fluctuation). Typical time and height resolutions for the proposed acoustic echo-sounders could be of the order 10 seconds and 10 meters; the spatial wave number explored could range from about 10-2m-1to about 400 m-1."
"Short pulses of acoustic energy at a carrier frequency of 950 Hz were beamed upwards from an array of loudspeakers. The energy which was backscattered from the random fluctuations of temperature within the turbulent regions of the lower 300 meters of the atmosphere was received on the same array and recorded on a facsimile receiver. The acoustic echoes were calibrated against temperature and wind data obtained from sensing elements fitted on a tower 75 meters high, 500 meters away from. the acoustic sounder. Sounding records, together with temperature and wind data, are presented for thermal plumes, breaking waves, and the formation and breakup of a radiation inversion. The usefulness of the acoustic sounding technique in continuously monitoring the intensity of small-scale temperature inhomogeneities in the lower atmosphere is emphasized. Future developments are outlined."
"Addition of a radar to a scanning microwave radiometer is shown to be simple and to consume little power. Since both the radar and the radiometer receive signals having the statistical properties of noise, both receivers may use the Dicke synchronous detection system, provided the radar receives enough independent samples. Application of the combined instrument to spacecraft measurement both of oceanic winds and waves and of precipitation has more promise than the use of either instrument alone, since they can, in part, calibrate each other. An aircraft imaging radar radiometer has potential for applications where superposition of the thermal radiometer image on a relatively static radar image will aid in interpretation."
"Application of broad-band (panchromatic) illumination in radar systems should permit improvement in image quality and reduction of tracking and detection problems due to fading. The effect of frequency averaging on radar return from a simple target array is demonstrated by numerical computation and on image quality by ultrasonic simulation. The required bandwidth for a slightly rough random surface is determined analytically. Extension of the panchromatic concept to multiple-frequency radars used for target identification is suggested as being superior to use of multiple single frequencies because the frequency-averaged signals are more representative than single-frequency signals of return in a particular band. The term \"polypanchromatic\" is suggested is distinguish this system from a \"polychromatic\" system using single carriers in each band."
"Limitations in the state-of-the-art of remote sensing instrumentation and restriction of experimental ground truth, imposed by the inaccessibility of the oceanographic environment, have inhibited the application of remote sensing techniques to oceanographic research and the implementation of operational environmental monitoring programs. However, preliminary experiments are demonstrating the application of infrared sensors; surface mapping radars, radar scatterometers, surface profiling lasers, passive microwave radiometers, pulsed laser depth-finding systems, and optical scanners, cameras, and television systems to the problems of sea surface temperature measurement, sea state determination, sea ice surveillance, fisheries research, and subsurface reef detection. Data obtained from recent experiments are presented herein. It is concluded that particular attention should be paid to the development of microwave sensors to obtain an all-weather capability. Intensive research programs should be established to develop techniques for interpretation of subsurface phenomena based on surface measurements. This would enable construction of three-dimensional models describing the dynamic characteristics of the ocean."
"The pack ice in the Arctic Ocean was the subject of a special remote sensing mission conducted jointly by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Navy Oceanographic Office, the U. S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, the Arctic Institute of North America, and the University of Kansas. One of the most significant results of the experiment was verification of the ice type identification potential of a 2.25-cm-wavelength radar scatterometer. The results of the radar experiment are presented and the data are analyzed to determine the characteristics of radar backscatter from various Arctic ice types. A quantitative analysis of the data indicates that identifiable radar return \"signatures\" are obtained for each of several specific sea ice types. A qualitative analysis based on the Kirchhoff-Huygens principle suggests that a categorizing factor, denoted as the surface roughness factor, can be assigned to each of several ice types."
"Radar backscatter from the ground was investigated in May, 1966, by aircraft and rocket flights over the Tularosa Basin area in New Mexico. An L-band radar with a peak power of 100 kW was flown to an altitude of 165 km, where echoes in orthogonal polarizations were monitored. The purpose of the experiment was to observe the behavior of the radar echo as a function of altitude and subsequently to relate the echo behavior to the measured electrical characteristics of the surface. Soil samples taken from the target area and measured in the laboratory had an average moisture content of 3.6 percent, dielectric constants between 2.8 and 4.8, and loss tangents between 0.001 and 0.2. The loss tangents computed from penetration measurements were somewhat higher (0.37). In most cases, the echo power amplitude appeared to vary as the inverse altitude squared for both the direct- and cross-polarized vertical incidence echo components. The average values for dielectric constant and loss tangent computed from the echo characteristics were ε = 3.4 and tan Δ = 0.25, which are in fair agreement with the soil sample measurements. An unexpected result was the observation of a specular cross-polarized echo component."
"The importance of polarization phenomena in remote sensing by electromagnetic means is discussed briefly. With active sensor systems using microwave or laser sources the radiation is very likely to be coherent and plane polarized. Both intuition and measurement point to anticipated differences in the scattering functions of particles and surfaces interacting with incoherent and with coherent radiation. Polarization is one important aspect of these scattering functions that we have undertaken to investigate in the laboratory. Data selected from our measurements on silica beach sand, Haleakala volcanic ash, and magnesium carbonate have been used to point out significant differences in polarization, depolarization, and photometric functions related to the geometry of incidence and observation. Filtered tungsten light (λeff=0.48 µ, λeff=0.54 µ, λeff=1.0 µ) results are compared with He-Ne laser (0.6328 µ) results on the same photometric-polarimetric analyzer, and possible explanations are offered. A very interesting aspect of the magnesium carbonate data is the marked deviation from the cosine law reflection that makes it such a useful photometric reflection standard for incoherent light."
"The general parts of a remote sensing information system in agriculture are described, with special emphasis on the optical spectrum. Scene radiance spectra of cultivated and uncultivated vegetation, soils, and water are presented from 0.4 to 2.8 and 4 to 16 µm wavelengths. These spectra from natural scenes illustrate various radiometric aspects of field spectroscopy as distinguished from laboratory spectroscopy on natural samples. Temporal information in the agricultural scene is combined with spectral information in a radiometric space model. This model is the basis of a system design to acquire data containing spatial, spectral, and temporal information of a flight swath from an aircraft or spacecraft platform in a format for efficient extraction of ultimate user information. The gap between current airborne data acquisition systems and the desired system specifications is discussed. Airborne instrumentation requirements such as bandwidth and noise-equivalent reflectance, emissivity and temperature changes are described in the light of ultimate user mission requirements."
"Systems utilizing sensors on aerospace platforms for the purpose of surveying earth resources have been under study recently. In this paper research on the information processing portion of such a system for agricultural resources is described. In particular the application of pattern recognition techniques to muItispectral data is proposed and example results are presented. Good classification accuracy on crop species identification of some 40 000 samples in a five square mile area was achieved in one example. Other examples show results in feature selection and nonparametric classifier algorithms."
"Remote sensor imaging technology makes it possible to obtain multiple images of extensive land areas simultaneously from the radar, infrared, and visible portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. It would be useful to automatically obtain from such data land-use maps indicating those areas of similar types of land, that is, similar as seen through the sensor's eyes. This classification problem is approached from the perspective of the structure inherent in the data. The classification categories or clusters so constructed are the natural homogeneous groupings within the data. There is high similarity within each cluster and high dissimilarity between clusters. Two clustering procedures are presented: the first partitions the image sequence and the second partitions the measurement space. In both, the partition is constructed by finding appropriate center sets and then chaining to them all similar enough points. The resulting clusters are simply connected and not necessarily convex. An example of the measurement space clustering procedure is presented for a set of three multispectral images taken over Phoenix, Ariz."
"This paper describes two computer-based methods for data handling and display which significantly simplify the task of relating remote sensor signals to that ground-truth information which can be derived from aerial photographs of the ground scene. These techniques have been applied successfully to microwave radiometer and infrared spectrometer flight-test data. Results indicate that the digital computer, with its associated storage and display capabilities, makes possible systematic and accurate analysis of remote sensor data in large volume at low cost. In one approach, the computer is used to determine and display, on aerial photographs, the exact path of the sensor boresight over the ground scene. Using this display, an investigator can observe visually certain simple correlations between the sensor return and the ground scene. In the second approach, the analyst uses a special light-pen console to put ground-truth information (in graphical form) into the computer. Using techniques described here for storing, retrieving, and processing graphical data, the computer automatically converts the ground-truth information into a form where it can be correlated directly with the remote sensor signals."
"A fundamental limitation upon the accuracy obtainable by means of multifrequency probing of the atmosphere is examined in the light of scatter theory. It is concluded that perturbations due to irregularities smaller than a certain size will inevitably contribute errors to such measurements."
"Contours of the Rice distribution function are plotted in the same format as terrain reflection data from a rocket-borne experiment. The contour plot is used to separate the independent component of copolarized reflection from the crosstalk, and thus to determine the leakage factor."
"It is shown mathematically that under certain specified conditions, the efficiency of a frequency doubler using an ideal non-linear capacitance with arbitrary output phase angle can attain unity value. The optimum drive condition and corresponding phase and voltage gain are also derived."
"Simulation of transport delay by using conventional analog computer components poses a great problem. If the input is a polynomial of degree n in t, then it can be shown that the delayor can be simulated by using n/2 integers (n even)."
"The fast Fourier transform (FFT) is a high-speed technique for computing the discrete Fourier transform of a function. The FFT is exact only for discrete (sampled) functions. A technique is presented which utilizes the FFT and its associated computational speed, and computes the Fourier transform of \"smooth\" functions with better accuracy than the FFT alone. In particular, algorithms using the FFT for transformation of piecewise polynomial functions are presented."
"Cadmium sulfide thin film solar cells have been subjected to extended thermal cycling tests in vacuum to simulate the conditions of an earth orbiting satellite. When cycled under load, the solar cells exhibit a slow loss of output. Several possible causes of this loss are suggested."
"A method is presented for deriving the maximum compatibility sets corresponding to a given flow table. The method uses the graph of incompatibles to find the compatibility sets, and is particularly convenient when the number of pairwise incompatibles in a flow table is much less than the number of pairwise compatibles."
"Available results are summarized on the comparative trajectory sensitivities of nominally equivalent open-loop and closed-loop optimal control systems."
"Electromagnetic field problems in a circular waveguide filled completely with a magnetoelectric medium were solved on the assumption that the magnetoelectric coefficient α was to be limited to one direction. The results obtained seem to provide a useful tool for the measurement of the magnetoelectric effect in the microwave region."
"An algorithm is presented to enumerate all circuits of a linear graph. The method is suitable for computerization and does not require a large computer memory. The application of the procedure to some other enumeration problems is discussed."
"Gibby and Smith derived general conditions for the overall system characteristic which lead to the elimination of inter-symbol amplitude and pulsewidth distortion. It is shown that their derivation can be simplified by a more rigorous use of the delta function."
"A relationship between temperature behavior of the resonant frequency FR, the antiresonant frequency FA, and the coupling factor k is given by an equation of the form δFA/FA- δFR/FR= Gδk/k. The factor G as a function of the coupling factor and the order of overtone is calculated for both piezoelectrically unstiffened and stiffened modes. An application of this relationship yields the curve of turnover temperature versus the coupling factor of X-cut lithium tantalate resonators."
"It is noted that the conditions stated in a previous letter for real nonsymmetric matrices to have real eigenvalues and real nonpositive eigenvalues, respectively, are both necessary and sufficient."
"An assumption of charge neutrality is frequently used to calculate the electric field arising from an impurity atom density gradient in semiconductor material of homogeneous conductivity type. It is shown that this charge neutral assumption represents a zeroth-order approximation, using Picard's algorithm to solve the associated differential equations."
"The problem of applying horizontal and/or vertical parity checks for error detection is considered. It is proved that the parity check at the intersection of the horizontal and vertical checks can be calculated from either set of checks and that errors can be detected in the information independent of those in the nonintersecting checks."
"Combined power outputs are obtained from high-efficiency avalanche-diode oscillators connected in series as a multiple-stacked unit. Increased circuit impedances for stacked diodes are measured. The results demonstrate the locking capability of such diodes and the prospect of attaining power levels in the kilowatt range."
"It is shown that spectra of pulse trains, position modulated according to a sinusoidal law, may be readily found when applying the Jacobi-Anger formula on the Fourier transform of the respective scanning function xδ(t) = Σk = -∞∞δ(t - tk) introduced through the convolution theorem."
"The design procedure is discussed for an RC phase-shift network which is the same in phase and magnitude over wide frequency bands."
"As much as 11-dB change in the two-way conversion efficiency of a 1.5-GHz CdS film transducer has been produced by means of optical illumination. Possible applications to acoustic beam scanning are discussed."
"A type of voltage divider circuit having low output impedance, small source loading, and an output voltage temperature coefficient as low as 0.002 percent per °C is described. It exploits the properties of multiple-matched bipolar transistors and is suitable for use in monolithic integrated circuits and applications employing precision zener reference diodes."
"Calculated values of the negative conductance of transferred-electron GaAs diodes are employed to determine the injection phase-locking characteristics for operation in the LSA mode."
"Current density probes for directly measuring the current distribution in cable sheaths and isolated phase bus enclosures are described. They are simple to construct and can be used to measure both transient and steady-state alternating or direct current distributions with excellent resolution in both time and space."
"A one-dimensional analysis which defines the static collector-emitter saturation voltage characteristic of epitaxial and triple-diffused transistors in terms of collector current, base current, and device parameters is given."
"The results are presented from a study of the orotron, a new electronic generator of the millimeter and submillimeter wavebands with a wide range of frequency tuning. An open resonator with a grating on one of its mirrors is used as the oscillatory system. The device is excited by passing an electron beam over the grating."
"Plane wave reflection and transmission by a unidirectionally conducting screen is treated for the case of oblique incidence and for two polarizations. An interesting feature concerning the power relations in the reflection and transmission properties of such a screen is noted."
"A fast folding algorithm is described which greatly facilitates the correlation of digital data with impulse trains. This algorithm is useful for detecting weak, noisy pulse trains of unknown period and phase."
"Proper choice of prior statistics and mathematical models for optimum filtering and smoothing algorithms are essential for successful operation of control and communication systems in which estimation requirements are present. This letter presents the development of a set of relations which allows the determination of error bounds for the estimation error covariance matrix of fixed-point smoothing and fixed-interval smoothing algorithms for optimum linear estimation."
"A circuit is presented which allows the realization of a notch filter by means of a single operational amplifier. The notch bandwidth can be easily adjusted by varying the ratio of two resistors and two capacitors."
"Linear analog computing elements may be employed to realize a voltage transfer function whose poles and zeros are to be independently controlled. The method is based on the dummy variable technique widely used in analog computer simulation. It requires at most (n + 4) operational amplifiers, n of which are connected as integrators, where n is the degree of the denominator polynomial."
"FM measurements of the angle distortion introduced by single pole bandpass filters are compared with recently published theory. While the agreement is reasonable for small deviation ratios, it rapidly becomes poor as the deviation ratio increases. Discussion of a possible reason for the discrepancy is included."
"A definition for the duration of an FM-discriminator click is suggested, and the probability distribution function of these click widths is approximated by a double integral over a bivariate Gaussian distribution. Numerical results for one case of interest are presented."
"Modifications to the Robbins-Monro and Kiefer-Wolfowitz stochastic approximation procedures are suggested for the time-varying applications frequently encountered in engineering problems. A weak form of convergence for the procedures is demonstrated."
"The resistance of a particular example of a class of two-dimensional inhomogeneous conductors was given approximately by Goldner. The exact resistance value can be derived from the rule when equipotentials and lines of flow are interchanged."
"Using a new device concept, a unique semiconductor strain sensor has been demonstrated in the laboratory. It is a p-n heterojunction diode which is fabricated by vacuum evaporation techniques directly onto flexible substrate. This sensor's mechanical input properties are controlled by the choice of substrate, and it has a low-impedance voltage source output characteristic."
"A time domain method suitable for hybrid simulation is developed to compute interchannel distortions due to linear transducers in FM systems. Multichannel baseband signals are simulated by sets of randomly phased sinusoids uniformly spaced in frequency. The distortion is computed by Monte Carlo trials. The method is fast and convenient for the user's interaction."
"Surface wave propagation along a tapered cylindrical dielectric rod is described in the form of a coupled mode theory which includes the effects of the radiation field. Analytical results are presented for a multimode taper, linear to first order in the taper angle, excited by the dominant HE11surface wave."
"Measurements of the frequency distribution and statistical characteristics of the high-level RF noise produced by the high perveance electron beam of a magnetron injection gun show that the noise is nearly white and nearly Gaussian distributed."
"Experiments are described for a surface acousto-electric amplifier utilizing a composite spatially adjacent structure of lithium niobate and a silicon film. Principal observations include 6 dB stable terminal gain at 107 MHz with dc drift field power of 7W, electronically variable attenuation of 100 dB, and net electronic gain up to 1200 MHz. The use of the silicon film as a nonreciprocal Rayleigh wave transducer is also described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The rapidly increasing capability of the digital process control computer permits the economic solution of many electric utility system operating problems in a more accurate and timely manner. In this paper, the extension of the application area from the field of economic dispatch of generation to more sophisticated functions of system security is traced. Other related problems in the area of operations planning, operations control, and operations accounting are also reviewed. The requirements of communication systems to provide remote input data to the process computer are discussed, and the close interrelation of business and process computers is recognized. Information display is shown to play a very significant part in providing output to the system operators for further action. Concurrent with the developments in hardware have been significant advances in analytical techniques to encompass the increasing number of problems of system operation. These are reviewed in relation to the two major concerns, system security and system economics. An integrated information and control system may he achieved today for business, engineering, and system operation as a result of significant developments in hardware and in problem solution concepts. The optimum application of these improved equipments and analytical tools requires a total systems viewpoint in relation to both hardware and software."
"Thin polished plates of hot-pressed rhombohedral lead zirconate-lead titanate ceramics possess one of two types of electro-optic properties depending on the nominal grain diameter. In poled coarse-grained ceramics the electrooptic effect of importance for devices is the dependence of the light scattering properties on the orientation of the ceramic polar axis (electrical poling direction). The light scattering properties are essentially independent of the magnitude of electrical poling (ferroelectric remanence state). Poled fine-grained ceramics are birefringent, and their light transmission characteristics are similar to those of optically uniaxial crystals. These materials exhibit orthotropic symmetry with respect to the optic axis, which coincides with the ceramic polar axis. The fine-grained ceramic electrooptic effect of primary importance for devices is the dependence of the effective birefringence on the magnitude of electrical poling as well as on the intensity of the applied biasing electric field. Retardation of a ceramic plate can be varied incrementally by partial switching or continuously by application of a nonswitching bias field. Both coarse- and fine-grained ceramics have the property that localized areas as small as 25 µ by 25 µ can be poled or switched independently without affecting the light transmission characteristics of the surrounding area. The locally switched areas are stable with time, but they can be \"erased\" by switching them back to their original orientation. Each locally switched area can function as a light shutter, valve, or spectral filter depending on the ceramic material, the switching mode, and the characteristics of the incident light."
"The basic principles of several real-time optical processing schemes employing heterodyning are examined. In each case the method by which the correlation function is developed from the ultrasonic light modulator (ULM) is analyzed. It is shown that in some configurations it is possible to derive the heterodyne reference collinearly, thus increasing the mechanical stability and minimizing the effects of optical aberrations. Experimental results obtained with a correlator using a shear-wave ULM and collinear heterodyning confirm its stability and verify the fact that quality performance can be obtained with inexpensive optical components."
"Direct-feedback coding is a refinement on the well-known differential coding method. Two filters are used at the transmitter of a direct-feedback coder; one connected in series with the input and the other in the forward path of a feedback loop that contains the quantizer. The first filter preemphasizes the signal and determines the overload characteristic of the coder; the other filter shapes the quantization noise and sets the stability of the feedback. At the receiver a filter reconstitutes the signal spectrum and deemphasizes the noise. For television the preemphasis should he a short time-constant differentiator, the deemphasis a short time integrator, and the feedback filter a long time integrator. Conventional differential coders use a single filter in the feedback path both to provide preemphasis and to shape the feedback characteristic, so the design is a compromise. Compared with direct-feedback coding they usually have less feedback gain and a larger time constant in the preemphasis and deemphasis, consequently, the contouring noise is more visible and the streaking caused by transmission error is longer. Although only application to television is considered, the methods have wider use. General formulae are given for the output noise and optimum filter characteristics; they take into account signal spectra, frequency weighting for noise, sampling rate, quantization step size, and an overload parameter. Measurements on real coders, operating on TV signals, and digital simulations confirm the results."
"Experiments have been performed in which the radiation from a CO2laser was coherently detected after being scattered from a moving diffuse reflector. This is generally the configuration of an infrared laser radar. The power-spectral-density of the heterodyne signal was measured and its width was shown to agree with the calculated value based on a theoretical model for the process. Expressions are obtained for the ratio of heterodyne signal bandwidth to heterodyne frequency for the cases of focused radiation, unfocused radiation, and for a typical radar configuration. In most cases, the heterodyne signal is found to possess a narrow-band character. The probability density of the signal envelope was also measured for a known scatterer (providing Gaussian scattered radiation) and was found to be Rayleigh distributed, as expected. The power-spectral-density and envelope probability distribution provide information about a scattering medium or target which cannot be obtained from average-value measurements of the heterodyne signal-to-noise ratio. This information is useful for communications applications, infrared radar, and heterodyne spectroscopy experiments. Finally, a simple and direct method of obtaining information about the statistics of an incident radiation field (which does not involve photocounting) is discussed."
"Computer simulations of twice oversized n-GaAs diodes with random doping fluctuations operated in a transmission line (multiresonant) circuit are presented. LSA operation in this multiresonant circuit, which provides an RF square wave voltage across the diode, has been obtained for n/f ratios as high as 1 × 106s/cm3."
"A low-noise amplifier, operating over the wide tuning range of 1.9 to 3.1 GHz with 5- to 20-MHz bandwidth and 25-dB minimum gain, has been packaged for antenna mounting. Noise temperature is less than 10 K across the band."
"Some three-frequency, phase-matched, forward-wave, parametric interactions possible in III-V \"ionic\" semiconductors are discussed. A tunable infrared parametric oscillator, with frequency variable over a wide range with applied magnetic field, is shown to be feasible."
"A method is given to determine the components of the signal of an unlocked driven oscillator. The phase modulation signal, which perturbs the free oscillation, is expanded in a Fourier series."
"A new package is designed which will satisfy both the requirements of better electrical performance and efficient heat dissipation for use with high power multichip stacked varactor application. This is achieved by separating the electrical path from the heat path. The total heat dissipation capability is estimated to be about an order of magnitude higher than that of the conventional package. A doubler was built with six chips in one package. It handled 80 watts input power at 0.9 GHz and delivered 52 watts at the output frequency of 1.8 GHz."
"Observation of electroacoustic resonance in the re-entry sheath of a Trailblazer II vehicle enabled a calculation of the electron-density gradient at the vehicle surface."
"The effect of applying a transverse magnetic field on forward biased Si p-n junctions is investigated, and the results obtained suggest the possibility of employing magnetic measurements to evaluate the physical properties of semiconductor devices."
"The fourth-order Runge-Kutta method is shown to be a special case of Liou's method of evaluating transient response for a linear time-invariant system. The eigenvalue problem is then the same for each method."
"Self-Q-switched operation of Nd3+: YAG lasers at 77°K and ruby lasers at 300 and 77°K pumped by the 5145-Å output of a pulsed argon ion laser is described. Self-Q-switched operation was obtained 1) by static mirror misalignment and 2) by static misalignment of the filament of the pumped laser material with respect to the mirror resonator axis. An output that consisted of a single giant pulse could be obtained for ruby by either method; for Nd3+: YAG, the output always consisted of one or more giant pulses and characteristic relaxation oscillations."
"Because it is cumbersome to address a plasma display by use of a crossed grid, a method to address this device by use of an electron beam has been developed and demonstrated. The advantages of high brightness and \"infinite\" memory are retained."
"Free carriers in germanium produced by impact ionization at 4.2°K have been used to modulate 200-µ- to 2-mm-wavelength radiation. Modulation depths up to 100 percent and bandwidths of 100 MHz have been obtained."
"A novel technique for generating a single optical pulse using an electrooptic switch is demonstrated. The optical pulsewidth is unrelated to the width of the voltage pulse applied to the electro-optic switch. Pulsewidths continuously variable from 0.5 ns to 50 ns were obtained."
"Studies have been-made of a parametric oscillator pumped at frequency fp, with circuits resonant at fsoand fp-so, and an output taken at fp-so. The oscillator output frequency may be controlled by that of a small input signal applied at a frequency close to fso."
"Optimal transversal equalization is considered for a noiseless multipath channel comprising a main signal followed by a larger magnitude ghost. It is shown that for the optimal transversal equalizer, the output residual intersymbol variance decreases with increase of processing delay. For the same processing delay, the optimal transversal equalizer intersymbol variance is always larger than that of the finite optimal Wiener equalizer, especially as the magnitudes of the main signal and ghost approach equality."
"An application of a tunnel-diode-pair unilateral pulse regenerator to unipolar pulse transmission is described. An experiment performed at around 10-MHz repetition rate showed that an arbitrary unipolar pulse pattern was regenerated and transmitted unilaterally over a coaxial cable with an error rate of 10-11per section."
"Insulated-gate field-effect transistors have been made, which combine the advantages inherent to Schottky barrier source and drain electrodes with ion implantation. This device has a self-aligned gate structure achieved by using the thick gate electrode as a mask during the ion implantation process."
"The photoetching technique was applied to the construction of a microwave hologram. The 34.26-GHz microwave field was mapped by Polaroid film and copied on a printed circuit board. The printed circuit board was illuminated by the same beam as used in the formation of the original hologram. The real image was focused onto liquid crystal film for visualization. A comparison was made between the reconstructed image of the binary microwave hologram and that of the photoetched plate. The photoetched board which can produce the halftone transmission of the microwave beam was shown to be a satisfactory means of making microwave holograms."
"An iterative technique is given for solving the equation for the maximum a posteriori estimate of the modulation on a carrier which is combined with noise. The method has been tested in the FM case with satisfactory results."
"CW Gunn oscillations at frequencies from 0.5 GHz to over 1 GHz have been obtained with GaAs bulk diodes constructed from an epitaxial n layer grown on semi-insulating substrates. Observations of current waveforms have been made for both transit-time and delayed-domain modes. CW microwave power of 12 mW has been obtained at 0.9 GHz."
"A Fourier synthesis technique is utilized to obtain the backscattered impulse response waveforms of a perfectly conducting right circular cylinder. The impulse response waveforms for broadside incidence for both parallel and perpendicular polarizations are given. The character of a creeping wave contribution and the validity of high-frequency asymptotic estimates of the reflected and the diffracted fields are discussed."
"Detection probabilities for a noncoherent pulsed radar are presented as a function of maximum possible pulse-to-pulse frequency change (transmitter bandwidth) and target depth for frequency agility applied to Swerling's case I target. The transmitted frequency is a uniformly distributed random variable."
"A comparison between a rather rigorous space-charge wave theory by Kino and Robson and a simplified large-signal model proposed by the author, concerning the influence of the transverse surface boundary condition on the space-charge dynamics in thin-sheet Gunn devices, shows that the results of both approaches are equivalent. It is also concluded that the oscillation frequency in such devices may be much larger than in ordinary samples."
"A method is presented for computing the field distribution and the characteristics of an H-guide with a laminated dielectric slab composed of an arbitrary number of dielectric strips separated by air layers."
"Quantitative results are presented concerning the loss in signal detectability in a digital correlator due to quantization, sampling, and correlation. The results and the method for obtaining them are believed to be applicable to a wide class of problems in the design of digital systems and in numerical analysis."
"A varactor diode having parasitic case capacitance and lead inductance, used in a parametric amplifier with resonant signal and idler circuits, gives a frequency of maximum gain which is slightly less than the resonant frequency, and is determined by the values of the parasitic elements and of the gain."
"The field of view of a lensless Fourier-transform holography system is limited by the modulation transfer function (MTF) of the recording film, and in a similar fashion by turbulence between the object and the recording plane. A multiple-reference-source technique that partially overcomes this limitation is presented."
"A digital technique is presented for time-base error compensation in magnetic tape recorder data. A buffer shift register with feedback control is used to obtain a variable delay of the recorded signal during playback. A system block diagram is described, and typical experimental results are provided to demonstrate the performance of the system."
"The \"least squares\" property of the generalized matrix inverse, when utilized with Parseval's theorem from Fourier transform theory, provides frequency domain methods for determining least energy signals having applications in communication and optimal control theory."
"Interaction of cyclotron beam modes with circuit modes is studied using a coupled-mode approach. It is found that the interaction of the slow cyclotron beam mode with the fast forward circuit mode can lead to growth. The instability experimentally observed also supports this hypothesis. Means are discussed for reducing the growth rate in order to improve the stability of a crossed-field amplifier."
"Diffractional distortion on off-axis beams in beam waveguides is illustrated for two types of beam paths as they would be used in multibeam guides for optical trunk communication systems."
"Let {Xi}1Nbe N independent, identically distributed Rayleigh signals. It is shown that if V=max{Xi}1Nand U=min{Xi}1N, then P[V/U ≤ K]= (N - 1)!(K2- 1)N - 1/Πl - 1N - 1[N + l(K2- 1)], K ≥ 1, N ≥ 2. This result is a generalization of a previously published equation. Plots of P(K) as a function of N and S = 20 log10K are also given."
"The characteristic impedance of star-shaped coaxial transmission lines is determined by the method of conformal mapping."
"A surface wave transducer is described which radiates acoustic power in essentially one direction. Using Y cut, Z axis propagating lithium niobate and unidirectional transducers, a delay line has been constructed that exhibits 6.5-dB insertion loss and 52-dB triple-transit echo suppression at 106.5 MHz."
"The direct digital measurement of the cross-correlation between two channels by means of a reversible digital counter is described. The technique applies to the case of small signal-to-noise ratios and offers some advantages in the instrumentation of correlation systems requiring digital outputs."
"This letter describes a class of all-pass networks that may be obtained by feeding double inputs of the same frequency of a type of network whose transfer function are of a specific form. The method illustrated by a RC parallel-T network."
"A simpler and more straightforward procedure is outlined for establishing, in modified forms, certain theorems reported earlier on nonuniform transmission lines. The dual of each theorem is formulated from the same procedure. These theorems enable additional solvable nonuniformity patterns for a distinct class of non-uniform lines identified as exact nonuniform transmission lines to be deduced from the known distributions of nonuniformity of general classes of solvable nonuniform lines."
"Continuous electronic phase-shift control in a self-locking two-phase inverter is described."
"Collector junction capacitance is computed for a diffused reverse-biased collector junction in the presence of a limited velocity electron current. Two cases are considered--constant collector background doping and a heavily doped subcollector background. The computation shows that the collector junction capacitance can either increase or decrease depending on the doping profile of the subcollector structure."
"Dc current-voltage curves obtained for silicon avalanche diodes capable of oscillating in the high-power anomalous mode show no evidence of a truly static negative resistance; however, a dc negative resistance can be induced by transit-time oscillations and is responsible for yet another mode of oscillation."
"Calculations have been made of the radar cross sections of imperfect spheres to circularly polarized radiation. The matrix method of Waterman was used and only imperfections having axial symmetry were considered. Some results for spheres with an equatorial cylindrical section are given for spheres up to six wavelengths in diameter."
"The mutual information of the binary input, unquantized output, asynchronously multiplexed channel is investigated. The loss of channel capacity intrinsically due to asynchronism is less than 16.3 percent with any number of simultaneous signals."
"It is proved that the multiplexers shown are realizable. The frequency range can be divided arbitrarily, and an input impedance of 1 + j0 at all frequencies can be obtained. A synthesis procedure is given."
"A complicated dielectric spectrum may consist of a superposition of continuous relaxation contributions, where the physically significant function is the distribution of relaxation times. Methods are described for finding this function by solution of integral equations using inverse Laplace transforms. Realization of the solution for experimental data requires numerical calculation."
"The results of an investigation of linear phase digital filters are presented. It was determined that stable filters of this type are necessarily nonrecursive. The corresponding transfer function is presented in a general form in terms of basic z-plane pole and zero configurations. The design of digital filters of this form is accomplished by approximating a desired frequency function by one of four types of Fourier series. The types of series correspond to the forms of the z transfer function polynomial, which is either a mirror-image polynomial or a negative mirror-image polynomial, and either even or odd order."
"The characteristics of the fourth harmonic power from a 55 GHz frequency gas discharge are described, as well as its dependence on the gas pressure and the electrode geometry."
"IMPATT diodes have been tested under the influence of 1.85×106R/h gamma radiation from a 1.5- MeV Van de Graaf generator. No measurable change in performance has been observed during or after irradiation. A 100 to 300-fold increase in bias current was measured in the preavalanche region of operation."
"Some comparisons are made of the bleaching rates of cathode-ray colored KCI and sodalite screens. Comments are also made on nomenclature."
"A GaAs laser radar system is described which can produce incremental range profiles with a precision better than ±7.5 cm (±3 inches). The system employs a pulsed room-temperature GaAs injection laser, a photomultiplier tube, and a sampling oscilloscope with a digital readout."
"Silicon Schottky-barrier diodes have been developed which simulate the performance of point-contact (1N23WE) diodes in the standard mounts. These diodes along with 1N23 point-contact and back diodes were examined under 9.375 GHz excitation for noise temperature over the IF range of 5 kHz to 180 kHz. The Schottky diodes had noise temperatures comparable to and often lower than the back diodes. This fact, together with lower conversion loss and convenient impedance levels, makes the Schottky-barrier diodes generally advantageous in Doppler radars and similar applications."
"This letter demonstrates an integration method for deriving finite-difference approximations to Laplace's equation for problems which are axially symmetric and involve dielectric interfaces of arbitrary shape. The method generalizes a previous approach, and is easily automated and applicable to other types of boundary conditions as well."
"Impedance versus distance data are provided on a -8.34 dB tapered coupler suitable for use in a broad-band -3 dB magic tee, correcting data previously presented by Fuchs."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper discusses the ionospheric satellites that have been developed and launched as a result of the topside sounder and ISIS programs. The mission objectives, the feasibility studies, the program coordination, and the more important scientific accomplishments are summarized."
"A brief explanation is given on where to obtain ionospheric data generally, and specifically ionospheric data which has been observed from space vehicles. The close relations between the World Data Centers and the National Archives is noted."
"The Alouette-ISIS series of satellites is described, with attention being paid to the engineering and management constraints that were present during the conceptual stages, and it is shown how each succeeding mission meets more fully the objectives of the program. The lessons learnt during the development of this series are finally applied to the conceptual design of ISIS-C, the last satellite in the program."
"A fixed-frequency ionosphere sounder satellite, Explorer XX, was developed for the purpose of obtaining pulsed soundings of the topside of the ionosphere. The basic sounder instrumentation comprised a two-frequency transceiver coupled to an electrically short dipole antenna. Three transceivers were used for sounding at six fixed frequencies between 1.50 and 7.22 MHz. A two-frequency sounder payload was developed for initial rocket testing to demonstrate the feasibility of topside sounding and to provide design data for both United States and Canadian topside-soundersatellites. In 1961, two rocket experiments were successfully conducted, providing the first topside soundings: the first during quiet, and the other during disturbed, ionospheric conditions. Explorer XX, launched in 1964 into an 800-km polar orbit, provided soundings, generally on three or more of the frequencies, for more than one year. The development of sounder instrumentation, including a 100-watt peak power transmitter and antenna system, is discussed and the payload system design is summarized."
"A general review is presented of the highlights associated with the mechanical engineering of the Canadian Alouette I and II spacecraft. Of special interest was the development of the extendible ionospheric sounding antenna, first used to form 75-ft by 150-ft tip-to-tip crossed dipoles on Alouette I. The use of such long antennas made Alouette I the first earth satellite to be launched that exhibited flexible body characteristics over a long period of time-- years, in fact. The problems concerned with the design and use of the antennas and how their flexibility affected the dynamics of Alouette satellites in orbit are reviewed. The most significant result obtained from the mechanical engineering aspects of the Alouette program was the discovery of the phenomenon of passive spin of symmetrical flexible bodies by coupling of the sun's thermal and radiation (photon) pressure fields. The effect of this mechanism on the spin behaviors of Alouette I and II is described."
"Echo sounding of the ionosphere from below has, for four decades, been a fruitful way of obtaining information about the upper atmosphere and the effects of solar emissions. In the last few years, earth satellites have been used as platforms from which to sound the ionosphere from above. This technique has opened new areas of ionospheric research and has the great advantages of world-wide coverage and rapid movement from one observation site to another. The paper is concerned with the design and engineering aspects of the topside sounders in the Alouette and ISIS satellites. It is shown how the requirements of the experiment and the limitations of the spacecraft and its environment determine the design of the instrumentation. The evolution of the swept-frequency sounders is traced from the first sounder, flown in the Alouette I satellite, to the more sophisticated ones in Alouette II and ISIS-I, and engineering problems of particular interest or difficulty are described in detail. Finally, there is a discussion of how these techniques might be extrapolated in a sounder designed to explore very distant regions in the earth's magnetosphere."
"Data telemetered from the Alouette I and II swept-frequency topside sounder ionospheric satellites are collected by a worldwide network of 22 ground stations. To acquire data, each spacecraft is commanded, and its telemetry signals received and recorded, on magnetic tape. The telemetry tapes are then forwarded to processing centers where the ionospheric data are converted into ionograms and stored on 35-mm film. Because telemetry tapes are often contaminated with noise and spurious signals, and because of the nature of the sounder signals, considerable difficulty has been experienced in mass producing suitably coded high-quality ionograms, These problems are described and an outline is given of how they have been solved or minimized. Essential features of the design and performance of the spacecraft and the telemetry and command ground stations are included as pert of a unified description of a system for generating ionograms. For purposes of illustration the telemetry and command ground station and the ionogram processing system currently in use at Ottawa are described. This system has proved highly successful and has evolved over a period of six years of topside operations involving 18 000 hours of processing time and the production of approximately 2.3×106ionograms. In conclusion a brief description of an improved processor for the ISIS-I satellite is given, along with some comments on future developments."
"A simple telemetry system was devised soon after the launch of the Alouette I satellite, to obtain topside ionograms directly from the satellite. The video data from a simple receiver are tape-recorded directly with a basic system costing less than $1000. Additional equipment can supplement the basic system to improve the quality of the data and to produce film ionograms."
"A telemetry receiving system that provides a direct readout of ionograms from topside sounders is described. The system is designed to use \"off-the-shelf\" components. Its most important application is the availability of immediately readable ionograms for short-time corrections of usable frequencies."
"Most of the phenomena observed on Alouette I and Alouette II ionograms are identified and interpreted. Simple as well as complex ionograms are treated, but emphasis is placed on ionograms exhibiting very low electron density, spread-F and field-aligned propagation. It is shown that many of the ionograms normally considered too complex for analysis can yield useful geophysical parameters using the methods described in the paper. Also discussed are signals observed on Alouette II ionograms at frequencies well below foF2, due to the propagation of earth-based transmissions via either the whistler or the Z mode."
"The basic principles of the ionosonde technique for ionospheric electron-density determination are reviewed, with special emphasis on the satellite version. It is shown that the lamination method of data reduction, developed initially for the analysis of ionograms obtained with ground-based ionosondes, can be used to calculate the electron density N versus true height h in the topside ionosphere provided a number of refinements are introduced. These refinements are required because the extraordinary wave data have to be used to obtain N(h) profiles from topside ionograms, and because these data are very sensitive to the magnetic field variation over the great altitude range of topside soundings. A complete procedure for analyzing topside ionograms, based upon a parabolic-in-log N lamination method is presented which incorporates the actual values of the earth's magnetic field at all heights, a change in variable which renders the group path integrand finite at the reflection point, and iteration until successive calculations agree to within 0.01 km. A procedure was also developed to insure and accelerate the convergence of the iteration process. The importance of each refinement is discussed and illustrated quantitatively. It is shown that this new N(h) reduction technique can, in theory, yield topside electron-density profiles with an altitude accuracy of a few kilometers over a 3000 to 400 km altitude range. This theoretical accuracy can be achieved using typically ten to twenty data points per ionogram. In practice, the errors in the N(h) profiles arise primarily from the limited resolution of the ionograms, calibration inaccuracies, and deviations from vertical propagation. The actual accuracy of topside N(h) profiles is discussed in a companion paper [16]."
"Past observations, indicating that electron density profiles derived from topside ionograms have a tendency to be slightly too low, are reviewed and discussed. This problem is then examined in the light of more recent and better controlled experiments in which vertical electron density profiles were obtained essentially simultaneously by topside and ground-based soundings. These new measurements confirmed past observations and indicated that the error had a tendency to increase with satellite altitude. From a study of the ground echoes, which are often seen on topside ionograms, it is shown that the above discrepancies can be partially attributed to systematic errors (0 to +30 km) in the topside ionogram height markers. Horizontal electron density gradients can also contribute to this discrepancy. The errors found in the N(h) profile (although systematic) are usually too small to detract significantly from the general usefulness of topside ionograms. Also, the portion of the error due to incorrect height markers can often he calculated from a ground trace analysis and the ionogram data can be corrected accordingly."
"A computer-aided data-interpretation system is described that combines the abilities of a human operator for pattern recognition and decision making with those of a digital computer for rapid computation. It is designed for the specific task of converting ionograms to electron density N(h) profiles, but is sufficiently flexible in design and concept to be used, in principle, with any type of complex datum. The system consists of a small computer with an associated cathode-ray tube display, a human operator, and a large main computer. The small computer is used to digitize and store the ionogram tape and maintain the CRT display. The operator scales a trace representing one of the magnetoionic modes of the displayed ionogram, and commands the main computer to calculate the corresponding N(h) profile and the ionogram that would result from the computed profile. The operator then compares the remaining traces of the original and computed ionogram via the display, and either verifies the scaling or rescales the ionogram until the desired agreement has been achieved. The system permits the scaling, for N(h) analysis, of complex ionograms which otherwise could not be used for this purpose without great labor."
"A global morphology of electron density distributions in the topside ionosphere during sunspot minimum as deduced from Alouette I and II ionograms is presented. Graphs are shown illustrating the variations of electron density with altitude (400 to 3000 km), dip latitude (±90°), local time (24 hours), and season (December and June solstices; equinox) for both quiet and disturbed geomagnetic field conditions. \"Average\" daytime and nighttime electron density distributions, based on the analysis of large quantities of Alouette I quiet-time data, are presented for the lower altitudes (less than 1000 km) and for low and middle dip latitudes for each season. Large-scale anomalous features are summarized and discussed with respect to their bottomside counterparts where such exist. Small-scale effects and physical explanations for the topside ionosphere behavior are discussed in companion papers."
"This paper reviews information on the high-latitude ionosphere derived from the Alouette-ISIS program. It is primarily descriptive and deals mainly with F-region features. Particle effects in the D region and night E ionization are briefly considered. F-region features include the main trough, maxima and minima in electron density in the polar region, and electron-density irregularities revealed by the presence of spread echoes on topside ionograms. The relationship of these features to the plasmapause and the energetic particle boundaries is discussed. Although ionization effects in the D region are not directly detectable by the Alouette satellites, large increases in D-region ionization are produced at high latitudes by the influx of energetic particles which may be detected by some of the energetic particle counters on board. For both polar-cap and auroral events, empirical relations have been derived between particle fluxes and D-region radio-wave absorption measured by riometers."
"The structure of the equatorial ionosphere as derived from topside sounder data is reviewed. Shortly after sunrise a single ionization crest occurs above the magnetic equator at all heights, but later during the day an equatorial anomaly develops in the form of an arch along which the ionization is enhanced and which lies along different magnetic field lines at different local times. The arch intersects the F2-layer peak at the latitudes where the well-known equatorial anomaly crests occur. The anomaly develops after about 0800 LMT in the Asian sector, but there is some evidence which suggests that the anomaly may start to develop several hours later in the American sector. The anomaly starts to decay after about 1500 LMT in the Asian sector, but only after about 2000 LMT in the American sector. The behavior during this decay phase, however, has not yet been fully established. During the night hours marked spread-F echoes are observed on the low-latitude topside sounder ionograms."
"Topside sounders observe electron-density irregularities in the ionosphere with dimensions of hundreds of meters to many kilometers across the magnetic field. Most irregularities are elongated and may extend thousands of kilometers along the field. The variation of electron density is normally a few percent or less. The irregularities tend to occur in patches, in which the individual irregularities vary greatly in size. Irregularities can produce radio echoes by scattering, ducting, or complex refraction, depending on their dimensions. The different kinds of echoes produce different characteristic patterns on topside ionograms, and therefore irregularities in various size ranges may be distinguished and studied."
"The Comité Consultatif International des Radiocommunications (C.C.I.R.) predictions of F-layer penetration frequencies have been compared with 1963 Alouette topside-sounder data. The data used for these comparisons were collected from 45° to 165°W longitude in the northern hemisphere. It was found that the C.C.I.R. predictions differ by as much as 0.7 MHz from the Alouette data. The latitudinal and longitudinal variations could be represented more accurately in the C.C.I.R. prediction system by supplementing the ground-based ionosonde data with topside-sounder data."
"The state of knowledge of ionospheric storms in the topside ionosphere is reviewed. Although much remains to be understood concerning ionospheric storms, many of the storm-time phenomena can be interpreted in terms of drift motions produced by storm-time currents, and by ambipolar diffusion."
"VLF observations from the Alouette satellites have provided information on the ion composition of the ionosphere. This is derived from two sources: noise bands with a lower frequency cutoff at the lower hybrid resonance (LHR) frequency, and ion whistlers. The LHR frequency depends on the harmonic mean mass of the ionic constituents. Ion whistlers provide good measurements of the relative abundances of protons and helium ions, as well as the proton density and on occasion, proton temperatures."
"The principal results obtained from the background noise experiment in the Alouette satellites are summarized. The various natural emissions, most of which can reach intensity levels as high as 80 dB above receiver threshold, are identified in the recordings with reference to the characteristic frequencies of the ionosphere local to the spacecraft and are described in turn. Galactic noise is the predominant signal above fT, with some occasional solar noise contributions; emissions are described and values are presented for the galactic spectrum between 0.6 and 12 MHz. Below fT, four distinct ionospheric emissions are recognized and tentatively associated with plasma processes. They are 1) a noise band below fHwhich is thought to result from cyclotron emission from energetic electrons, 2) a band that occurs mainly between fHand fzS and which probably results from a spacecraft interaction with the local plasma, 3) a noise band between fzS and fTwhich is believed to result from transverse electrostatic oscillations, and 4) a band at frequencies above fNwhich probably results from longitudinal electrostatic oscillations in the ionosphere. These ionospheric emissions show an association with ionization irregularities; at times, also, overtones and intermodulation products of such emissions can be clearly recognized at frequencies above fT."
"One ofthe investigations carried out with the energetic particle experiment on the Alouette satellites has been a study of the high-latitude boundary of 35-keV electrons in the outer radiation zone. A comparison of Λbthe average high-latitude boundary, with solar proton intensity versus latitude profiles, and with the location of the auroral oval, leads to the conclusion that Λbindicates approximately the high-latitude limit of closed geomagnetic field lines, or alternatively the low-latitude limit of open field lines. The dependence of Λbon local magnetic time and on the angle φ between the earth-sun line and the geomagnetic axis has been investigated. A noon-midnight asymmetry of about 8° is observed in Abas well as a marked dawn-dusk asymmetry. A dependence of Abon φ is also observed, in which Λbhas a minimum for φ ∼ 90° and is approximately symmetrical about this angle. The results are interpreted as indicating a stronger coupling between the solar wind and the magnetosphere when φ ∼ 90°, which results in more geomagnetic flux being swept back into the \"tail\" at these times. Some of the information included is presented in more detail in a recent paper by McDiarmid and Wilson [6]."
"The cylindrical electrostatic probes flown on both AIouette II and Explorer XXXl enable intersatellite comparisons of directly measured parameters to be made. The sensors are identical, but differences between the two satellites resulted in differences of data format and probe potential. Interference from the topside sounder on Alouette II has made data processing difficult."
"The Alouette II and Explorer XXXI satellites were placed in orbit by a single launch vehicle and separated. Cylindrical electrostatic probes of identical design were installed on each satellite in part to test the effects of the long sounder antennas and large radio-frequency power on Alouette II upon direct measurements of the thermal electrons and ions. Comparisons of the early data, taken when the satellites were separated less than 1000 km along their common orbit, suggest that there is no inherent incompatibility between the sounder experiment and direct measurement experiments. The electron temperature Teand concentration Nederived from the two experiments generally agree to better than 10 percent, although unexplained differences of up to 15 percent in Teand 40 percent in Nehave been found on rare occasions."
"The planar thermal ion and electron trap experiments on the Explorer XXXI satellite are described. These are capable of measuring ion and electron density and temperature and ionic composition at the satellite. Instrumentation, principles of operation, data analysis procedures, and sources of error are discussed."
"A magnetic sector field mass spectrometer on the Explorer XXXI satellite, when calibrated in flight against electron concentration data from the Alouette II topside sounder satellite, measures the absolute concentrations of the various positive ion species in the ionosphere. The in-flight calibration is performed by comparing the total ion current measured by the mass spectrometer, corrected for internal discriminations, with the electron concentrations, first in regions of nearly pure H+, then in regions of nearly pure O+, to obtain calibration coefficients for each ion species. Data at 500 km show as many as ten different ion species in the ionosphere. Over the polar region, H+ions streaming upward at 10 to 15 km/s have been observed."
"Measurements have been made of the suprathermal electron flux by means of retarding potential analyzers on Explorer XXXI. Samples of various types of data are presented and some of the analysis procedures are discussed. Detailed analyses of particle flux measurements obtained in the energy range 7 eV to 200 eV are presented for the data from three spacecraft transits of the polar region. The integral flux and derived differential velocity distributions yield the result that in the polar trough region there is an enhanced energy density of the suprathermal particles, with a value comparable to that of the ambient thermal plasma. At lower latitudes, the pressure of suprathermal particles is significantly less than that of the thermal plasma."
"Two probe experiments aboard Explorer XXXI measure the concentrations and temperatures of the thermal electrons and major ion species encountered by the satellite. A brief description of the instruments is given and examples of data are presented to illustrate special features which could be relevant when contrasting results with those from other experiments on Explorer XXXI or Alouette II. Comparison with data from the ionosonde aboard the latter provided information on the effective collecting area of the probes and the influence of the plasma sheath surrounding the satellite."
"Intercomparison measurements of the major ionospheric parameters of ion and electron density and temperature and ionic species made by direct measurement probes on the Explorer XXXI satellite are presented. Plasma density results are compared with simultaneous data from the Alouette II satellite. Probe results are from the following experiments: planar ion trap, planar electron trap, cylindrical electrostatic probes, high resolution magnetic ion mass spectrometer, planar Langmuir plate, and spherical ion probe. The plasma densities measured by the various probes generally agree with simultaneous Alouette II sounder values to within 20 percent. Electron temperatures measured by three different types of probes generally agree within 10 percent. Ion composition measurements by the planar ion trap and spherical probe show good agreement with the high resolution magnetic mass spectrometer. Ion temperature measurements from the ion trap are consistently higher than spherical ion probe results."
"Measurements of electron temperature, ion concentration, and ion temperature obtained by means of the Langmuir plate and spherical ion probe on the Explorer XXXI satellite are presented together with results obtained at the same time from the Alouette II ionosonde for a period when the two satellites were close together. Electron concentration measurements by the sounder have been used for in-flight calibration of the probe total positive ion concentration measurements, and an effective grid transparency for the probe was obtained. This transparency, which appears to be different for different ion species, was 35 percent for hydrogen ions and 42 percent for oxygen ions. Results from a set of measurements centered on a latitude near 70° magnetic dip in the Australasian region are tabulated and have been used to determine vertical temperature gradients of the plasma on the basis of diffusive equilibrium theory. The calculated gradients are negative between altitudes of 650 and 1050 km. The reality of these negative gradients cannot be confirmed because the direct measurements of plasma temperature exhibit large day-to-day fluctuations so that a reliable height variation of temperature cannot be constructed."
"The plasma resonances observed by topside sounder satellites appear as persistent ringing signals at the plasma frequency and at multiples of the electron-cyclotron and upper hybrid frequencies. They are attributed to slow, electrostatic waves which occur near these frequencies. Explanations have progressed from invoking stationary waves or waves moving with the satellite to invoking waves which are reflected back to the satellite by the vertical electron-density gradient. In addition to the principal resonances, plasma echoes, proton-period modulation, lower frequency resonant signals, and \"floating\" resonances are also observed."
"Knowledge of the topside ionosphere resulting from studies of nonvertical propagation, such as scatter from ionization irregularities and minitroughs, hemispherically conjugate echoes, combination modes, multiple-hop propagation, unusual Z-wave propagation, and whistler-mode propagation, is reviewed. From these studies there appear to be two major types of magnetic field-aligned ionization irregularities: a thick type and a thin type. The thick type has a thickness of tens or hundreds of kilometers and occurs both near the auroral zone and at latitudes corresponding to the equatorial anomaly. The thin type has a thickness of a few hundred meters and may extend thousands of kilometers along a field line. At high latitudes the thin type has a tubular cross section, may have an electron density either greater or less than the ambient, and may result from fluxes of energetic particles; at low latitudes the thin type has an electron density deviation of the order of 1 percent or less. The thin type of ionization irregularity supports propagation which is responsible, at some distance from the satellite, for two different delayed-echo phenomena. In the vicinity of the satellite electrostatic waves with near-zero group velocity are probably responsible for the fH, fT, and nfHresonance spikes and also for the newly discovered fQnresonance spikes which occur at nonzero and noninfinite values of the wavenumber. A novel spike, called the \"floating spike,\" is believed to result from propagating electrostatic waves."
"Recordings from the ionosonde receivers in the Alouette II satellite commonly show narrow-band, resonant-like signals at frequencies below the fundamental ionospheric resonances, fH, fN, and fT. These are attributed to nonlinear processes in the plasma near the spacecraft, and the on-board electronic equipment: studies of these signals are reviewed in this paper. Particular attention is given to the subsidiary resonances, which appear at simple fractions of the ionospheric resonances. It is shown that an explanation involving harmonic stimulation of the plasma resonances and beat-frequency generation is consistent with most of the observations. Several other types of satellite data are also examined and further substantiation is found for nonlinear plasma behavior. The importance of ionospheric nonlinearities is discussed briefly for both transmission and reception of radio signals in space."
"Diffusive equilibrium is an idealized concept, representing a limiting case of the continuity equation for charged particles in the ionosphere. Since plasma diffusion can proceed rather rapidly above the F2peak, the plasma density distribution in the topside ionosphere can, in general, be approximated by a diffusive equilibrium distribution. The density scale height of this distribution depends on the mean ionic mass (i.e., ion composition), and the electron and ion temperatures and their gradients. While diffusive equilibrium is reasonably representative of the distribution of plasma density (and therefore of the major ions), the distribution of the minor ions in the topside ionosphere may still be affected strongly by chemical and transport processes. Because of the magnetic field control of plasma diffusion, equilibrium conditions apply along magnetic field lines. At latitudes where the magnetic dip is fairly high (I > 60°), diffusive equilibrium applies directly to vertical density profiles. At high latitudes (beyond the \"trough\"), where the local plasma density can be very low, an almost \"collisionless\" regime prevails, leading to an \"ion-exosphere\" distribution, which decays with altitude much faster than a diffusive equilibrium distribution. Although diffusive equilibrium may not always be strictly applicable, the concept provides a readily available analytical model for the general features of the topside ionosphere."
"The most striking feature of the equatorial F-region ionosphere is the equatorial geomagnetic anomaly. This phenomenon has been known for nearly thirty years from bottomside measurements, but only recently have topside sounders provided sufficient data for the development of theoretical models. It appears that the major contribution to this effect lies in the interaction of the ionosphere with the earth's magnetic field via mechanisms causing drifts and currents. However, other theories have considered control due principally to production, loss and temperature effects. This paper reviews relevant theoretical analyses and compares the theoretical predictions with data available from the Alouette I topside sounder."
"A further analysis of the secondary resonances observed on Alouette II ionograms is reported. This analysis indicates a day-night effect in the relative frequency of occurrence."
"Radio waves transmitted by the Alouette satellite can, after being reflected in the ionosphere, return to the satellite and be scattered from the satellite antennas. Some of the scattered energy will be reflected again in the ionosphere and return to the satellite, and may then he detected. From the strength of such \"two-hop\" signals, it is deduced that they propagate in field-aligned cylindrical ducts or tubes that have cross sectional areas of the order of 0.1 km2and electron densities less than the ambient plasma. The guiding of waves by these field-aligned tubes is considerably less efficient for the ordinary wave (O wave) than for the extraordinary wave (X wave). For example, it was found from a small sample of two-hop data that the single-hop O wave signal strength, at frequencies above the plasma frequency in the tube, was roughly 15 dB (quartile range: 10 to 26 dB) below the X wave signal strength."
"Plasma wave features appearing on topside ionograms which occasionally exhibit structure due to the sidebands of the transmitted frequency spectrum include the O, X, Z, oblique-Z, and ducted traces; and plasma, electron-cyclotron, and electron-cyclotron harmonic resonances. The sidebands provide information on the nature of the features, aid in their identification, and improve the frequency and spatial resolution of the data."
"The cyclotron harmonic plasma resonances observed by Alouette II were investigated using a technique that yielded frequency measurements with an accuracy of the order of 1 kHz. The resonances observed near fHand 2fHexperience frequency shifts of the order of +2 percent and +0.5 percent, respectively, when fN/fH≈3 where fNis the electron plasma frequency and fHis the electron cyclotron frequency. The resonances observed above the upper hybrid frequency approach the true frequency values of nfHas n increases; beyond about n=5 the observed cyclotron harmonic resonant frequences are consistent with a single value of fHwhich agrees with model magnetic field calculations within the estimated 0.2 percent reliability of this field. The frequency shifts observed previously for these resonances on the Alouette I data are attributed to magnetic contamination from the Alouette I spring steel, antennas. A comparison of the earlier Alouette I results with the-present Alouette II results indicates that the bulk of the original excitation volume associated with the higher cyclotron harmonic resonances is confined to a region considerably less than one antenna-length in radius from the antenna, that the size of this region decreases with increasing harmonic number n; and that it increases significantly as the radiating antenna becomes parallel to the direction of the earth's magnetic field."
"The propagation characteristics of the Z trace observed on topside ionograms are reviewed. One feature, the \"kinked\" Z trace, is examined in detail. It is shown that the kink can be explained by simple magnetoionic theory and is not due to peculiar electron density distributions. A ray tracing propagation analysis confirms this contention. Although the Z trace normally does not propagate down to the Flayer peak, its inherent resolution is superior to that of the ordinary and extraordinary modes. Its use in ionogram analysis may thus improve the accuracy of electron density profile calculations."
"Topside ionograms taken during some severe ionospheric storms show F2-layer critical frequencies that are less than F1-layer critical frequencies. A comparison of the electron density profiles derived from Alouette I ionograms obtained during these disturbed periods with those obtained during undisturbed periods show that the height of the F2 layer moves up, the plasma scale height above the F2 peak increases, and the column electron content up to 1000 km decreases. Data taken during the April 18, 1965, storm are treated in detail and it is found that an increase in the electron loss rate by a factor of 16 times the undisturbed rate can account for the decrease in electron density."
"Alouette II topside sounding data have been recorded at the Kashima station of the Radio Research Laboratories, Japan, and some preliminary results obtained from analysis of the topside sounding data during the one year period from October, 1966, to September, 1967, are reported. The plasma frequency at the satellite has been determined from several characteristic frequencies of each topside ionogram obtained from Alouette II data. The average nighttime structure of the ionosphere has been derived from plasma frequencies measured at various satellite positions over the data acquisition area of the Kashima station. The results are presented in terms of the electron-density distributions versus altitude and geomagnetic latitude. Some ionospheric parameters have been determined by fitting theoretical electron-density profiles to the observations. Theoretical electron-density profiles obtained on the assumption of constant plasma temperature (average of the electron and the ion temperatures) have been compared with those obtained for the case when the height gradient of the plasma temperature is put equal to 0.5 °K km. The comparison shows that the difference in the theoretical electron-density profiles between the two cases is not too serious, and hence, the theoretical electron-density profiles for the constant plasma temperature model were used to determine the ionospheric parameters. The results show that the probable thermopause temperature (i.e., neutral particle temperature at the base of the exosphere which is assumed to lie at the 600-km level) varies from about 1000 to 1200°K in the lower latitude region, to about 1500°K in the higher latitude region, and further that the plasma temperature (assumed constant with altitude) varies from about 1000°K in the lower latitude region to about 2500°K in the higher latitude region."
"Field-aligned electron concentration profiles from the Alouette II sounder are combined with simultaneous measurements of ion and electron temperatures and relative ionic abundances measured by the Explorer XXXI satellite at its orbit to deduce plasma ternperature ((Te+Ti)/2) and ion concentration profiles using a diffusive equilibrium theory. Analysis of eleven Alouette II-Explorer XXXI passes during December, 1965, and January, 1966, indicates that regions of constant or slightly decreasing plasma temperature with height are common in the lower exosphere. These results imply the presence of regions of negative or zero ion temperature gradients since experiment and theory generally yield nonnegative electron temperature gradients over the altitude range considered. The possibility of negative ion temperature gradients has been suggested by Banks [1]."
"A comparison of 6300 Å airglow data obtained at the Fritz Peak Airglow Observatory with topside ionosonde data obtained with the Alouette satellites on September 29, 1967, indicates the presence of a field-aligned depression of electron density associated with middle-latitude auroral red arcs. The Alouette data also indicate that the plasma temperature along field lines intersecting the arc may be somewhat higher than in neighboring regions. Furthermore, the transition from dominant O+to dominant H+occurs at much higher altitudes on the field lines intersecting the arc."
"Ionic compositions are derived by combining Alouette topside electron density profiles with electron and ion temperatures measured by the bistatic Thomson scatter sounder at St. Santin. Data from only four passes in 1967 are available, so that the results are still tentative."
"Data obtained from Alouette II topside-sounder ionograms have been used to study the regions of occurrence of low electron number density, N ≤ 100 electron cm-3, from December 1965 to April 1968. The study investigates the diurnal, seasonal, and spatial variations in the height and frequency of occurrence of the low electron density regions below 3000 km, within the limits imposed by the Alouette II orbit. In the northern-hemisphere winter near sunspot minimum, low electron densities were observed at all local times. A few examples were found in the summer (northem hemisphere) but only for local times around midnight and in the region of the main (midlatitude) trough. Most of the low electron densities were observed at geomagnetic latitudes greater than 65° near noon and greater than 55° near midnight, although they were observed at geomagnetic latitudes as low as 45° in the southern hemisphere near midnight. The low height cutoff of occurrence of N ≤ 100 electron cm-3showed a diurnal variation, with heights of 1400 km at night and about 2400 km near noon. This diurnal effect shifted upward in height during years of increased solar activity. The observations are shown to be consistent with the removal of light ions over regions in which the magnetic field lines are swept back into the tail of the magnetosphere."
"This letter derives an explicit formula for the evaluation of an arbitrary analytical function of a companion matrix with distinct eigenvalues. The derivation presented here is simple and meaningful. It is also shown herein that this formula has a remarkable recursive property, which makes it extremely attractive for use in digital computations. In fact, the commonly used diagonalization procedure involves, in general, far more computational effort than the use of the procedure derived in this letter."
"A statistical model for roundoff noise in floating point digital filters, proposed by Kaneko and Liu, is tested experimentally for first- and second-order digital filters. Good agreement between theory and experiment is obtained. The model is used to specify a comparison between floating point and fixed point digital filter realizations on the basis of their output noise-to-signal ratio, and curves representing this comparison are presented. One can find values of the filter parameters at which the fixed and the floating point curves will cross, for equal total register lengths."
"A physically oriented proof is given for the generalized Tellegen's theorem. The proof consists of applying the law of energy conservation to a hypothetical network in which all branch voltages and currents are determined by independent sources."
"The \"fixed\" electric charge at the Si/SiO2interface is a function of oxidation tube \"age\" and is remarkably affected by the substrate orientation and oxide quenching rate. Low temperature annealing affects this charge. A model to explain these phenomena is offered implying that defect centers in the oxide film are responsible for the fixed charges and also for instabilities found in MOS devices. An AI atom can form a center which acts as a hole trap and would be responsible for the \"negative\" instabilities found in these devices and reported in the recent literature."
"A method of frequency doubling of square waveforms is described and details of a practical circuit are given. The scheme works over a wide frequency range which is limited only by the upper operating frequency of the components used."
"The diagnostics of anisotropic plasma with the help of a Fabry-Perot resonator are discussed for an arbitrary orientation of the static magnetic field. It is noted that the choice between the plane wave and the beam mode approximations for use in the perturbation analysis is not crucial to the experiment and can be avoided by resorting to an additional calibrating measurement."
"A new double-loop coupling device for a two-cavity system is described, where the second loop of copper wire guides part of the microwave field out of the lower cavity and enables the coax line to be impedance matched."
"An isomorphic relation exists between the transient response of systems whose transfer functions are of the form B(s) and the transient response of systems whose transfer functions are of the form H(s)=B(√s). Several interesting conclusions are drawn from this relationship concerning the transient response of distributed systems."
"A nonvolatile integrated metal-nitride-oxide-silicon (MNOS) word organized memory was fabricated. The salient features of this integrated storage array are 1) WRITE cycle 2.0 microseconds, READ cycle 500 nanoseconds, 2) WRITE voltage ± 25V, 3) single device per storage bit, 4) MOS driving circuitry with no isolation between MOS and MNOS devices on the same chip, and 5) nonvolatile storage of information."
"Numerical results for the backscattering cross section for large dielectric spheres of relative index of refraction 1.6 are presented in graphical form for values of ka from 5 to 20. For this particular range, the backscattering expressions, which are obtained after a Watson transformation, show that surface waves rather than the geometrical optics fields dominate. The agreement with the exact Mie series is excellent."
"A time-to-frequency domain matrix formulation gives a relation between the coefficients of the numerator and the denominator polynomials of a transfer function of a linear system through a matrix formed from the initial conditions of the impulse response. Using this formulation it is not possible to obtain a transform in the complex frequency domain, even if complete data about the initial conditions of the time response are known. To remove this limitation an extension to the time-to-frequency domain matrix formulation is given. By using this new formulation it is possible to determine the complete Laplace transform if initial conditions of the time response are known."
"A lumped distributed amplifier is built in a hybrid technique with microwave Schottky-barrier field-effect transistors and tested. A not yet optimized structure has a flat frequency response up to about 2 GHz and negligible phase distortions; ps-puIses are amplified with negligible overshoot."
"A class of matrix differential equations, such as error covariance propagation, can be recast in different forms for analytic tractability. One recasting leads to familiar results, but with fresh insight. Another recast nets, possibly, some new results in the realm of Lyapunov stability."
"A Gunn diode has been tested under the influence of 2.1 × 106R/h gamma radiation from a 1.5-MeV Van de Graaf generator. A slight decrease in output power was detected under radiation conditions which could be due in part to heat generation. No significant changes in performance were observed."
"Using complex/analytic signal theory to determine the covariance of two nonstationary random signals can, in general, require an extension to the procedures for stationary random signals. These modifications are formulated for application to either stationary or nonstationary situations where the signals have zero \"dc\" content so that their Hilbert transforms are unique."
"A procedure for the construction of the group velocity diagrams for a magnetoionic medium is outlined. Excerpts of results of group velocity diagrams are presented for the purpose of indicating some of their special features."
"By applying a sinusoidal voltage of known frequency to a p+-n-n+structure of narrow n region and adjusting the dc bias to optimize the output component of a given harmonic in a resistive circuit, the lifetime may be obtained directly from a given set of computed curves."
"It is frequently proposed that at large impurity atom densities, diffusion into silicon is an ambipolar diffusion process involving mobile holes, electrons, and ionized impurity atoms. According to this proposal the density gradient attained during diffusion produces an electric field, and this field influences impurity atom transport within the semiconductor lattice. A qualitative discussion is presented here on the likelihood of an impurity atom gradient giving rise to an electric field, particularly at the temperatures used for device fabrication. It is suggested that an exceedingly small electrostatic shielding distance (Debye length) existent at diffusion temperatures places important limitations upon the electric field produced during the diffusion process."
"It is shown that the noncoherent orthogonal signal structure is the globally optimum solution to the noncoherent signal design problem at high signal-to-noise ratio when the dimensionality of the signal set is unrestricted."
"Some comments are directed toward Hodara's discussion of turbulence in the atmosphere and the validity of the simple geometric description of the statistics of a coherent optical wave."
"A free-running Gunn oscillator can be used to amplify a low-level frequency-modulated microwave carrier. In this scheme the low-level carrier wave serves to injection lock the Gunn source, thereby impressing the FM signal onto the higher level Gunn oscillation. Experimental data on the signal bandwidth, gain, distortion, and dynamic range of this system are presented."
"The dielectric loss is of importance in hybrid integrated circuits which require small attenuation. Such circuits are usually built with microstrip or suspended microstrip transmission lines. It is shown that the dielectric loss can be computed from the loss tangent tan δ of the dielectric substrate and the partial derivate δεeff/δεrwhere εeffis the effective dielectric constant and εrthe relative dielectric constant of the substrate. The effective loss tangent, the unloaded dielectric Q and the attenuation per unit length are given for microstrip and suspended microstrip transmission lines."
"A technique for using a computer driven CRT display as a programmable waveform generator is described. The desired signal may be specified by a lightpen on the face of the CRT. The signals produced may have a minimum rise time of 7.25 µs and be repeated at a rate of up to 69 kHz."
"The mathematical equivalence of analytic signals and phase-monopulse antennas is demonstrated. This further extends the lambda-function description of antenna patterns to include odd distributions. Also shown is how this equivalance can be useful in circuit design."
"An experimental investigation was carried out on the possibility of monitoring the moisture content M of the ground by measuring its effective reflection coefficient R. This was done via the use of an ionospheric sounder. In addition, the effect of temperature change on M and R was also examined. It is found that the correlation coefficient between M and R is 0.82, indicating a reasonably high possibility of monitoring M and R. As a by-product, it is found that beyond the first ionospheric echo, no further magnetoionic splitting occurs."
"Surface ultrasonic wave delay lines with dispersive time-frequency characteristics have been made using interdigital electrode arrays with variable element spacings on LiNbO3. The devices operate at 60 MHz with low insertion loss and a 3-dB bandwidth over 25 percent. A model has been devised which accurately predicts the phase and amplitude characteristics of the devices. \"Weighting\" the array to improve the phase characteristic is described."
"The equivalent noise circuit of a linear two-port can often be put in a more convenient form than the one given in the report by the IRE Subcommittee 7.9 on Noise issued in 1960."
"An equivalent circuit for a microwave cavity containing an active GaAs device is proposed and measurements which verify the circuit model are presented. Using this model, both waveguide and radial mode cavities have been designed for operation at frequencies ranging from 20 to 61 GHz."
"Gunn domains ware suppressed in Gunn diodes by side loading them with dielectrics of high permittivity or making them very thin. Results obtained on an experimental model suggest that electric lines of force leak out of the diodes."
"Electromagnetic modes in a semiconductor cylinder are described for cases of arbitrary conductivity. These modes, possessing purely axial electric fields, exist only for nonzero conductivity. The model approximates the LSA mode of a microwave oscillator. For an example with GaAs, the results specify the frequency × diameter product and the doping concentration/frequency ratio for self-resonance."
"A new high power LSA relaxation mode of operation offering wide electronic tuning of many times oversized GaAs diodes in high impedance waveguide post structures is presented: Experimental data and computer simulations explaining this mode of operation and characteristics of oscillations below and above the waveguide cutoff frequency are discussed."
"Edge luminescence has been observed at 77 K in CdS-Te heterojunctions. Emission spectra, I-V curves, barrier heights, luminescent threshold, and saturation values are reported."
"A controlled monostable tunnel diode pair circuit, which combines monostable with bistable action, has been simulated with the NET-1 computer program, using a tunnel diode model developed for NET-1. The basic circuit, its composite dc characteristics, and simulated and experimental output pulses are presented. Simulation and experiments show good agreement."
"A method is proposed for improving the sensitivity of inertialess scanning and readout of the microwave signal over an aperture. The improvement is obtained by the application of pulse compression concepts. Potential applications include microwave imaging and microwave holography in near realtime."
"The fact that the intensity distribution of a gas laser beam is Gaussian is of significance in determining the size of a spot written thermomagnetically on a magnetooptical material. The design tradeoff between beam energy and spot size is examined."
"A simple derivation leads to a useful expression for the maximum achievable convergence in a crossed-field electron gun in terms of the normalized final beam potential. Expressions for maximum attainable beam currents are given. These show the severe limitations on the short gun at high values of magnetic field."
"The gate currents of Ge and Si junction FET's operating beyond pinch-off show a component which increases as the temperature decreases and increases rapidly with drain voltage. A model is presented which explains these currents in terms of impact ionization by majority charge carriers, accelerated to energies above 1 eV in the high field region of the pinched-off channel. The probability of carriers reaching these energies is thought to be determined by their interactions with the lattice and thus is a function of lattice temperature, carrier type, and semiconductor material."
"The characteristics of power transistors calculated in an earlier paper are also applicable to n-p-i-n structures."
"The effective dielectric constant, conductivity, and skin depth of an inhomogeneous medium consisting of uniformly distributed and randomly oriented Rayleigh region leaves is developed. Numerical calculations of these parameters for a frequency range from 30 to 300 MHz, leaf water contents from 10 to 50 percent and leaf volume concentrations from 0.03 to 0.1 percent are made."
"A method for synthesizing bandpass digital filters is described and illustrated by a particular example. This method rests on a complex plane mapping performed on the z plane, and has several advantages over others proposed by various authors."
"It is shown that a probability distribution governing the fluctuation of the intensity of random noise containing some periodic or aperiodic signal wave can be well approximated by the noncentral χ2distribution and also that further approximation leads to the logarithmico-normal distribution which is simpler and more convenient in practical applications."
"A new type of solid-state microwave transmitter which consists of a low noise Gunn modulator and a high power IMPATT amplifier is described. The transmitter satisfies the requirements for a short haul baseband relay system which has a capacity of up to 960 telephone channels or the equivalent."
"The dispersive effects of the atmosphere due to index of retraction variations with the frequency will permit one to transmit vertically through the whole atmosphere under clear weather conditions pulses having widths ranging from about 40 ps to about 1.0 ps with distortions varying from correspondingly small to large over this range of pulsewidths. However, even for a pulsewidth of 1.3 ps the half-voltage pulsewidth is only increased by about 10 percent."
"An equivalent circuit has been derived that enables prediction of the microwave behavior of spherical, planar-ferrite resonators."
"Four nomograms are given to facilitate the calculations and design concerning the disruptive corona voltage in bundle conductor overhead lines, together with a new general equation for the corona losses in practical single or bundle conductor overhead lines."
"A relationship is noted between solutions of state equations obtained by numerical computation of the matrix exponential eATand solutions obtained using standard numerical integration techniques. The Runge-Kutta methods are shown to be equivalent to the series expansion eATout to fixed number of terms, depending on the order of the particular Runge-Kutta method used. As a result of this relationship one can see how highly efficient numerical integration routines may be written for a large class of dynamical systems."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The use of a noiseless feedback communication channel to improve both digital and analog transmission is discussed. The feedback channel is used in an iterative signaling procedure called center-of-gravity feedback. Suboptimum schemes having a less severe-feedback requirement are also treated."
"A simple charge-controlled switching model describes most fundamental aspects of the step recovery diode. However, it is shown that switching speed and the associated loss are related to the width of the i layer and to the doping level. A switching model appropriate for general computer use is given, and examples of its application are shown in pulse and harmonic generator circuits."
"In applications where large time-bandwidth products and high target speeds combine, linear FM pulse-compression systems used in radar or sonar suffer considerable losses in performance. This paper deals with the problem of wide-band signal optimizintion for the purpose of minimizing signal degradation resulting from Doppler distortion effects. The equation for the instantaneous frequency of a Doppler-transformed signal is derived. The optimum frequency-modulation law is then shown to be the linear period modulation (it can be with equal rights called hyperbolic frequency modulation or logarithmic phase modulation). It is interesting to note that some kinds of bats use this type of signal in their \"sonar.\" Exact and approximate expressions for the spectrum of a linear-period-modulated rectangular pulse are given, and the shape of the compressed output pulse is considered. Signal degradation due to Doppler distortion is shown to be negligible in the case of linear-period-modulation pulses. The influence of pulse envelope on the compressed signal waveform is discussed, and envelope-optimization examples are presented. A possibility for active generation of the optimum signal is mentioned. Significant properties of linear FM and linear-period-modulation pulse compression systems are compared."
"In the eight years since the first publication of glass laser operation, considerable progress has been made in this technology with 5 active laser ions operating at 7 emission wavelengths having been confirmed so far. Laser action has been obtained in time regimes from continuous wave to pulsed operation with pulse widths down to 2.5 × 10-13second. In addition, glass lasers currently provide the highest energy, the highest peak power, and the highest radiance laser sources. An efficiency of energy conversion to the optical second harmonic at 530 nm exceeding 50 percent has been obtained. Recent developments show promise of equaling gas laser performance in coherence length and average power. Present energy conversion efficiencies of over 8 percent and the development of a fiber laser receiver preamplifier are making glass laser systems applications increasingly attractive. This paper reviews the evolution of glass lasers, describes some recent developments, and discusses a number of applications in this fast-growing field."
"The steady-state solution of the diffusion equation reported by Levin for excitation of a semiconductor panel has been extended to the unsteady-state case. A light spot of arbitrary geometry and intensity is included in the analysis."
"It is shown that, in a given graph, the set of trees not containing a given branch can be obtained from the set of trees containing the given branch without duplications. Based on this, a simple derivation of Mayeda and Seshu's technique on generation of trees without duplications is given."
"It is shown that the βαIc-2law, experimentally verified for junction transistors at large collector currents, may be predicted on the basis of a general two-dimensional theory, valid for any injection level, developed by the authors in a previous paper."
"This letter presents a basic approach to the modeling of logic building blocks for the use at speeds at which delay effects cannot be neglected. An idealized logic block is followed by a delay-producing and waveshaping \"black box.\" A hierarchy of increasing levels of complexity is conceivable for this black box."
"This letter concerns a two-parameter nonlinear differential equation which represents an oscillator of van der Pol type. A one-parameter independent lower bound for the diameter of the oscillator limit cycle is established."
"Third-order intermodulation products due to the charge-voltage nonlinearity of the varactor diode in a parametric amplifier have been computed. Some experimental data obtained from a two-carrier measurement have been reported. Finally, the noise power density in a telephone channel due to parametric amplifier intermodulation has been calculated as a function of total input power into the amplifier."
"A method is described for significantly increasing the bandwidth of YAG-YIG-YAG two-port delay lines by using a different YAG crystallographic orientation than that previously employed. Experimental results are presented which show a 6 dB bandwidth of 770 MHz at a center frequency of 1350 MHz."
"The velocity (current)-electric field characteristic has been measured in different regions of individual epitaxial gallium-arsenide wafers by a high-power microwave technique. Epitaxial-n layers on semi-insulating substrates ranging in resistivity from approximately 0.5 to 5 Ω cm have been characterized. Trends in high-field microwave properties with normally specified low-field dc material properties are indicated."
"The results of a large-signal, nonlinear and fully self-consistent analysis of an avalanche oscillator using the analog simulation method are presented. A new oscillation mode with the resistive load is found, and its load dependence is studied. At an optimum field distribution, the efficiency reaches 31.8 percent at a dc current density of 3.4×103A/cm2."
"The AM compression, AM-PM and PM-AM conversion of a limiter is determined from its describing function."
"The subject of film-grain noise has attracted wide attention in recent years partly because photographic film is such a critical element in many coherent optical signal-processing and holographic systems. It is shown that film-grain noise, insofar as it can be represented by the well-known random checkerboard model, cannot be treated as additive or multiplicative noise."
"Stimulated emission has been observed at the end of the current pulse for a GaAs injection laser operated with an external resonator at room temperature. It has been observed in the peak injection current range of 65- 95 A and for current pulse half-widths in the investigated range of 250-500 ns. This effect was found only when a diode was operated with the external resonator. Stimulated emission both during the current pulse and at the end of the current pulse also has been observed."
"A wide-band capacitor utilizing a backward-biased selenium rectifier is reported. The capacitor is capable of covering a wide baseband frequency from low frequency to several hundred megahertz, and the series resonant frequency of the element having a capacitance of 0.01 µF exists above 100 MHz."
"Simultaneous application of two or more CW signals to a parametric-type frequency-selective limiter results in the generation of corresponding half-frequency subharmonics. This effect may be useful in the design of bandwidth compressors. A preliminary experimental investigation of the subharmonic power spectrum is reported. Parallel pumping of magnetoelastic modes in YIG single crystals was used in these experiments."
"The effect of logarithmic compression on a randomly fluctuating signal with either Rayleigh or Maxwell amplitude statistics is determined. A simple relationship between the logarithm of the average and the average of the logarithm is found for the large-signal situation."
"An optical homodyne technique is utilized to measure sub-angstrom dynamic mechanical deformations. For measurement in the frequency domain, where synchronous detection is used both the amplitude and phase of the mechanical signal can be measured with a high sensitivity; displacements less than 10-2Å were measured with normal environment acoustic noise. Measurement in the time domain is also feasible with reduced sensitivity."
"The definition of the encoding procedure known as delay modulation is given, along with the autocorrelation function and the spectral density. It is shown that the procedure generates a waveform for magnetic recording which is superior to presently used encoding processes."
"The technique proposed may result in self-repairing systems which are highly reliable and operationally flexible, and which require minimal operator intervention."
"Certain empirical correlations between the step-transient features and the real and complex frequency-domain parameters of type-1 linear feedback control systems are summarized. These correlations have been obtained by means of analog computer studies on a large number and variety of such systems. They have been found quite reliable for application in analysis and synthesis situations."
"Using Branin and Wang's method of storing the incidence matrix, a general and efficient method of forming the nodal equations is presented."
"The \"in-close\" and autocorrelation properties of signals with multiple linear FM segments are described by an approximate analysis that yields physical insight into the mechanisms determining the matched filter outputs for these types of signal functions."
"Coherent CW microwave oscillations in smooth-bore magnetrons are reported, continuously tunable over a 5:1 bandwidth. The dc characteristics of the device are found to be explained in terms of mobility-dominated electron transport. The instability reported by Buneman accounts for the scattering mechanism required for such transport."
"A theoretical result shows that electron diffusion in thin-layer GaAs amplifiers produces a frequency of maximum gain which can be in the range of 1 to 100 GHz. This result is used to obtain a set of curves to aid in device design."
"A method is presented which allows computation of eATby a truncated series method. The method given has low incremental computational cost if the series approximation to eATis of much higher degree than the degree of the characteristic polynomial of A."
"A simple modification of a lag network does not impair its ability to discriminate against high-frequency noise, but does dramatically reduce the phase shift inherent in the filtering operation. Consequently, this modified filter is particularly useful in closed-loop systems where phase lag is jealously minimized. Implementation of this less-than-minimum-phase filter requires only the addition of a zero-crossing detector and a capacitor-discharge switch."
"A technique is presented for measuring the \"shear\" photoelastic constants of lithium niobate by Bragg scattering from acoustic shear waves at moderate frequencies and at small Bragg angles. Values of p66=0.048, p14=0.056, p44=0.062, and p41=0.050 are obtained, the first two agreeing well with the results of other workers."
"A liquid crystal area detector has been used to make microwave holograms at 35 GHz. The holograms were photographed and the original images reconstructed using laser light."
"The Alford and Gold effect is reviewed and is expanded to include a Doppler shift in one of the two frequency spectrums involved. An optical radar based upon this effect would be able to measure range and velocity with small regard to pulse shape."
"In this letter, the effect of terminating resistance loss in the case of rhombic antennas has been studied. Generalized analysis has also been made to compute the radiation pattern of rhombic antennas with the log periodic dipole array termination. Theoretical radiation patterns are plotted and it is observed that this new method improves the directivity and lowers the sidelobe level."
"A phase shift network is described which adjusts the phase from 0° to 360° of an incoming signal without change in amplitude with respect to phase."
"The eigenfunction expansion technique recently introduced by Parmentier is used to discuss the stability of dynamic steady-state waves on a nonlinear Klein-Gordon equation. More precise statements concerning stability can be made than was possible with the \"averaged Lagrangian\" technique of Whitham."
"The well-known maximum power transfer theorem is generalized to the case of an n + 1 terminal network containing sources inside."
"An extremely high power silicon p-i-n diode switch was developed for operation over the 6 to 40 MHz frequency range. It was successfully tested at 4 MW peak power, and at 100 kW average power with 1000 µs pulsewidth in a balanced duplexer configuration."
"Measurements at X-band of capacitance C, microwave series resistance R, and CW output power P, on Si IMPATT diodes with epitaxial layers of varying thickness are used to show that P = (constant)/(RC2). This relation is known from the large-signal theory of the ideal Read structure, but is found to be valid far beyond its theoretical limits."
"It can be shown that the minimum ac resistance of a tubular conductor does not occur when the tube is solid. Derivations of and reasons for this behavior are presented. Knowledge of this effect can result in more efficient operation of high-power ac equipment where skin effect losses are important. Examples in the power field are overhead lines, underground cables, and isolated phase bus; examples in the microwave region are resonant cavities, high-power waveguides, and high-power coaxial lines."
"A generalized analysis of a center-fed dipole antenna with feed points displaced transverse to the dipole axis is presented. Mathematical expressions for the near-zone field radiation are developed from which the input impedance integral is obtained. The theoretical investigation of the radiation efficiency of the same antenna is also made."
"A circuit was developed which permits variable attenuation of an RF signal containing Doppler information while holding the phase shift of the signal to a minimum. A phase shift change of less than 2° was achieved for a 50-dB dynamic range. The design is centered around a p-i-n diode as the control element."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In the decade since the International Geophysical Year, information about the ionospheric absorption of radio waves during periods of auroral and magnetic disturbance has been greatly increased by the use of the riometer technique. Such studies are important for their geophysical implications as well as in direct applications to radio propagation. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the state of knowledge of auroral radio absorption at about the end of 1968, and at the same time to give the major references through which the reader may be enabled to study any particular questions in greater depth."
"The flashlamp-excited dye laser is presently the only type of laser capable of tunable emission throughout most of the visible spectrum. Gain and power output of the device are comparable to solid-state systems although the laser performance is hindered by thermal effects, produced by spatially nonuniform excitation of the dye, and optical losses associated with the molecular triplet state. In most of the known laser dyes, steady-state lasing is prevented by triplet state effects. The analysis of the gain of the dye laser is discussed in terms of the singlet-state absorption and fluorescence and triplet-state absorption spectra. The gain analysis is used to study the influence of the triplet state upon the critical inversion, and application of the analysis to a specific system is illustrated by the detailed discussion of the rhodamine 6G laser. A criterion for the maximum permissible triplet-state lifetime consistent with CW operation is given. The quenching of the triplet state of rhodamine 6G is shown to be rapid enough to allow CW operation, although thermal effects seem to be serious. The investigation of thermal effects is reviewed and the advantages of uniform excitation of the dye are pointed out. The minimum optical excitation power required for CW operation of a 7-cm-long rhodamine 6G laser of 2 mm diameter is estimated to be 850 watts neglecting thermal effects. A catalog of dyes, with their structures, that have been used in flashlamp-excited dye lasers is given. Various methods of tuning and mode locking the dye laser are reviewed. With a single dye a tuning range of 40 nm may be obtained by substituting a diffraction grating for one of the laser mirrors. Mode locking can be produced by placing a saturable dye absorber in the cavity."
"A survey of computer algorithms and philosophies applied to problems of feature extraction and pattern recognition in conjunction with image analysis is presented. The main emphasis is on usable techniques applicable to practical image processing systems. The various methods are discussed under the broad headings of microanalysis and macroanalysis."
"The output of an array of sansors is considered to be a homogeneous random field. In this case there is a spectral representation for this field, similar to that for stationary random processes, which consists of a superposition of traveling waves. The frequency-wavenumber power spectral density provides the mean-square value for the amplitudes of these waves and is of considerable importance in the analysis of propagating waves by means of an array of sensors. The conventional method of frequency-wavenumber power spectral density estimation uses a fixed-wavenumber window and its resolution is determined essentially by the beam pattern of the array of sensors. A high-resolution method of estimation is introduced which employs a wavenumber window whose shape changes and is a function of the wavenumber at which an estimate is obtained. It is shown that the wavenumber resolution of this method is considerably better than that of the conventional method. Application of these results is given to seismic data obtained from the large aperture seismic array located in eastern Montana. In addition, the application of the high-resolution method to other areas, such as radar, sonar, and radio astronomy, is indicated."
"In the practical setting of a threshold to implement the Neyman-Pearson criterion, the received noise power must be measured. The tradeoffs which take place between measurement accuracy, false-alarm probability, and detection probability are considered."
"Active transmission lines having linearly dependent sources distributed continuously along their lengths are discussed. The characteristic impedances and propagation functions for uniform active transmission lines are tabulated."
"Simple expressions for energy flow and stored energy in a linear conservative system are derived from a special form of the dispersion equation, and some applications are given for temporally and spatially dispersive systems."
"Substrate currents are observed in silicon p-channel MOSFET devices. These currents are similar to those observed in n-channel MOSFETs but have a markedly higher threshold voltage."
"The cumulative distribution of the ratio of an inverse Rayleigh to a Rayleigh distributed variable is derived. Associating the Rayleigh variable with intermodulation and the inverse Rayleigh variable with thermal noise envelope, the distribution is used to derive the cumulative distribution of improvement for an adaptive modulation index system."
"Two theorems concerning the superposition principle are stated and proved. These theorems are useful in the computation of total power dissipated in a network."
"A high average power, high figure of merit, X-band, ferrite loaded waveguide phase shifter has been developed. A zinc-doped magnesium manganese ferrite (4πMs=3000 gauss), in combination with a reduced cross-section rectangular waveguide, was used to achieve a figure of merit of 1000 degrees per decibel, which is better than any previously reported mode-free configuration."
"The steady-state solution of the vector differential equation x=Ax+Bw(t) is determined in a compact form by using the solution for an input of a train of impulses."
"Self-consistent nonlinear solutions for the space-charge flow in a smooth-bore magnetron with collision-dominated transport are discussed. Although oscillatory solutions were anticipated, none were found. The solutions do, however, clearly demonstrate the ability of the Buneman scattering mechanism to explain current flow below Hull cutoff."
"A direct method is presented for modification of the bus impedance matrix using a well-known building algorithm. The simplicity and generality of the method are demonstrated in two numerical examples."
"Several simple pressure transducers have been built by using heterode strain sensors evaporated directly onto a pressure diaphragm. The performance of these units indicates that pressure transducers are a feasible area of application for the heterode strain sensor, and that such transducers are potentially inexpensive and easily adapted to a variety of pressure ranges."
"The dispersion equation for electromagnetic wave propagation through drifting semiconductor magnetoplasmas has been derived for general orientations of carrier drift velocities and propagation vector relative to the dc magnetic field. This is used to show the possibility of two instabilities of wave propagation that are not diffusion limited to low frequencies."
"Phase pattern control of the RF output of an injection-locked pulsed magnetron is observed at 9.3 GHz. Phase coherence of the phase-coded output pulse is observed at an output to input power ratio of 40 dB."
"Techniques for measuring the input parameters of very high input impedance dc amplifiers are described, including a method for separating out the input current and input conductance. Results obtained from a set of measurements are used to demonstrate the techniques."
"The Walker mode of an infinitely long ferrite column is analyzed using the magnetostatic approximation for the case of the magnetostatic field oriented arbitrarily with respect to the axis of the ferrite column. A simple expression for the only existing resonant frequency is obtained in terms of the physical parameters and the orientation of the magnetostatic field."
"A working electronic motor operating at the record frequency 50 GHz is described. Means for bridging the frequency range into light are discussed, and a \"Poynting vector motor\" is proposed, eliminating the need of rectification and a separate driving unit."
"IMPATT diodes were tested under the influence of up to 1.5 × 107R/h gamma radiation and 3 × 1012N/cm2/s fast neutrons. Major changes were noted in power output, frequency spectrum, and current-voltage characteristics. Permanent damage and total failure resulted from this test."
"A new RC-amplifier resonator has a pole Q which is invariant under passive element drift. The differential sensitivities SxQare all zero. The macroscopic sensitivities give ΔQ/Q=-12 ppm for ΔZ/Z=1 percent. Thermal coefficients of R and C can thus be chosen for constant center frequency in several ways without affecting the Q stability."
"The low-pass prototype element values for doubly loaded Chebychev filters with 16-25 resonators have been calculated and tabulated. This material is of interest because of the increased use of these filters."
"Two main results are reported in the development of a system of rays diffracted at the edges of an open-ended parallel-plate waveguide which take care of the coupling effect between the two plates of the waveguide automatically. As an example, the application of such rays to the problem of radiation from an open-ended waveguide recovers the exact solution obtainable by the Wiener-Hopf technique."
"Two methods are presented which make it possible to obtain a zero temperature coefficient of the resonant frequency at room temperature in X-cut lithium tantalate resonators. The first method uses a series capacitance and the second method uses a trapped energy mode of vibration."
"This letter investigates optimal control of transients in a nonlinear power system by means of the new approach of bang-bang control of reactance. The generality and utility of this control process are discussed and computational results are presented for a specific case."
"Large-signal operation of the ATT oscillator may be achieved smoothly as a function of dc bias current by simultaneously satisfying the start-oscillation conditions for the fundamental and the second harmonic of the desired operating frequency. The theoretical conditions along with experimental confirmation are presented."
"A phenomenological theory is presented on the conduction and switching behavior of one particular type of amorphous semiconductor switching diode. This theory is based on the temperature-dependent conduction properties of the amorphous material, and is found to agree qualitatively with a number of different effects that have been separately observed in these diodes."
"It is shown that the roots of the biquadratic obtained from the elementary LP-BP transformation of a quadratic with complex-conjugate roots occur in complex-conjugate pairs having a common damping coefficient."
"The transient response of a hypothetical network that exhibits a frequency-independent phase shift is considered. This occurs, for example, in a physical configuration involving critical reflection of plane waves. For such a system, at a given point in space, the response may precede the applied force. This leads to an apparent (but not a real) violation of causality."
"The resonance of an infinitely long, axially magnetized, hollow ferrite cylinder is analyzed using the magnetostatic approximation."
"A new technique is described for realizing the optimum filter for spatial filtering in coherent optical systems. By employing two crossed ultrasonic modulators, this technique overcomes the inherent lack of adaptability of filters realized with photographic transparencies."
"Detailed computer calculations have been carried out to obtain data to guide the fabrication of optimum germanium backward diode microwave detectors. Curves are presented indicating obtainable performance for varying junction diameter, impedance level (determined by size and impurity concentration), and operating frequency."
"A new type of driven subharmonic oscillator is described which depends for its action on the incorporation of a nonlinear element with a hysteresis type of current-voltage characteristic. Two circuits that give close approximations to the characteristic of the nonlinear element are presented."
"In microwave systems requiring the various frequency components to be locked in phase, such as the carrier and the local oscillator, an ideal basis for the design of the frequency multiplying trains is afforded by selecting two large numbers, differing by 1, each of which is made up of convenient factors."
"A novel noise measurement technique is outlined which results in data that directly give the noise parameters of the test device when processed by a simple computer program."
"The apparent reduction in-modulation depth experienced by envelope detected signals at low input signal-to-noise ratios is calculated for two definitions of input S/N. From these results the dependence of output on input S/N over a range is determined and envelope detection threshold levels are defined."
"A technique which extends the capture range of a phase-locked loop by cancelling the phase sum terms from the loop error signal is described. The use of multiple phase comparators and phase-shift networks is shown to eliminate the need for a loop filter. A digital phase-locked loop is used as a vehicle for demonstrating the application of the technique."
"Pioneering experiments establishing the principles of recalling ancient sounds from antiquity are reported."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Silicon crystallographic orientation effects on semiconductor processing from single crystal growth through completed devices or circuits have been studied. The preferred octahedral crystal habit of silicon provides for stable crystal growth on the {111} plane, but the other low-index planes, {110} and {100}, are becoming more commonly used, in spite of greater difficulty in growth and processing of these crystals. Chemical and physical properties such as etch rates and Young's modulus are affected by orientation. The effect of crystal orientation on technologies such as diffusion under film (DUF), dielectric isolation, epitaxy, selective etch and epitaxial refill, and simultaneous deposition of single crystal and polycrystal silicon are presented. In addition, orientation effects on processes of oxidation, diffusion, alloying, and scribing are discussed."
"This paper describes a newly developed chem-mech polishing process for silicon wafers. This polishing process, without using any abrasives, can produce a silicon surface free of work damage. A solution composed of cupric nitrate, ammonium fluoride, and nitric acid is used on a conventional polishing wheel. The rate of stock removal is controlled primarily by the composition of the solution and the polishing wheel temperature. Highly polished surfaces have been obtained with stock removal rates as high as 20 mils per hour. At higher removal rates, the process is difficult to control and surface quality suffers."
"Gold-doped p+-n silicon diodes were subjected to heat treatments in the 700°-850°C range, and changes in the diode recovery time as a function of heat-treat time were noted. The recovery time was observed to increase with heat-treat time in two stages. In the first stage, the recovery time trincreases typically by a factor of 30 in several hours of annealing. In the second stage, which covers an additional 120 hours of annealing, the data points are more scattered, ranging from no increase in trto an increase by a factor of 10. Between the two stages trdecreases for a brief period. The data for the first stage fit the interpretation that the gold ceases to function as a recombination center when it jumps from a substitutional site to a nearby interstice. Using this interpretation, the time constant for the process is τ=10-3exp (1.36 eV/kT) seconds. The second stage of annealing is tentatively explained by the annealing of another group of recombination centers. These may be due to interactions of the gold dissociation reaction products among themselves or with other impurities."
"This paper describes the properties of active nickel centers in silicon. In particular, the role of nickel in both increasing and reducing minority carrier lifetime in silicon integrated circuits is described, and an assessment made of its use in this application."
"This paper will review the properties of thin silicon films deposited on sapphire (SOS) and magnesium aluminate spinel by the pyrolysis of silane in the temperature range 900-1200°C. Variations of carrier mobility, free-carrier concentration, minority carrier lifetime, crystalline perfection, and surface quality will be discussed as a function of substrate crystal and growth parameters. MOS transistors exhibiting field-effect mobility close to that obtained with bulk silicon have been fabricated and a complementary MOS transistor memory cell has been constructed with a WRITE-READ delay of 6 ns. The standby power for the cell is typically 10 µW. Other CMOS circuits display a pair-delay of 1.5-2.0 ns. AIl-epitaxial bipolar transistors with a current gain of 5 and fTof 350 MHz have been made in which all layers are sequentially deposited during one high-temperature operation. Recent improvements in bipolar fabrication techniques have lead to current gains as high as 25 at 10 mA."
"Concentration profiles have been determined for phosphorus diffusion into silicon. These have been fitted to the solution of Fick's diffusion equations using a model where a moving boundary separates two distinct phases. Thus, it is concluded that the silicon surface region is part of a different phase from the rest of the diffused layer. For the short diffusion times studied, the phase boundary reaction is the rate limiting process and the phase boundary moves at a nearly constant rate. In the region beyond the phase boundary the transport of phosphorus is controlled by two diffusion species, characterized by two substantially different diffusion coefficients. The slow diffusant is present mainly in a transition region between the phase boundary and the fast diffusant dominated region. The fast diffusant has a maximum concentration at the phase boundary. The linear rates of movement of the phase boundary, the concentrations of the fast diffusant at the phase boundary, and the diffusion constants for the slow and the fast diffusants were obtained over the temperature range from 820 to 1100°C. As the diffusion temperature increases the diffusion constants for the slow and the fast diffusants approach each other. At 1100°C, the diffusion profile can be represented by a single diffusion constant. For long diffusion times the phase boundary became less distinct."
"The variables affecting the uniformity of sheet resistance in a two step base diffusion system (deposition and drive-in), using BBr3as a source, have been investigated. The uniformity after the drive-in is predominantly dependent on the process variables during the deposition process. Amongst such variables as the design of the deposition system, the total carrier gas velocity, the spacing of wafers on a deposition boat and the reaction rate between BBr3and O2, the latter is the most influential factor in determining the uniformity of diffusion. A uniform diffusion along a certain length of the zone is obtained when the reaction rate between BBr3and O2has reached completion. This is indicated by the lowest sheet resistance (highest surface concentration) obtained and the highest amount of glass built up on the surface of silicon for a given deposition condition. The rate of reaction can be varied by varying the O2concentration or the temperature of reaction (or deposition). Increasing these variables causes an enhanced reaction rate thus shifting the position of the zone of uniform sheet resistance towards the gas inlet of the tube. Decreasing these variables has the reverse effect."
"In this paper we consider the problem of determining the effects of a nonuniformity in diffusion processes on the resultant electrical characteristics in semiconductor devices. A bipolar, planar silicon p-n-p transistor is considered as an example. A model is presented describing the current gain in terms of measurable diffusion parameters. These parameters are 1) the four-point probe reading of the diffused base, 2) the emitter-base junction depth, and 3) the collector-base junction depth or √Dt of the base. The model is used to predict the sensitivity of current gain to each of these diffusion parameters; it is shown that the sensitivity of current gain to the junction depth can be drastically reduced by a modification in transistor structure. Design criteria for making this structural change are presented as well as the results on actual devices."
"Oxide passivation, substrate orientation, transistor geometry, current density, and hFEwere evaluated for their effect on the 1/f noise spectrum of monolithic transistors. For verification of previous findings correlating 1/f noise with surface-state density, C-V measurements were made at 260 Hz and 0.1 MHz. Transistors fabricated on"
"A new, simplified, bipolar integrated circuit structure is described. This structure eliminates the need for the conventional isolation diffusion. Isolation is accomplished with the collector diffusion. This results in fewer fabrication steps than are required in fabrication of the standard buried collector structure. In addition, the new structure has greater circuit packing density because of the smaller area required for isolation. Transistor-transistor logic circuits have been fabricated using the new structure. Using 5 µm masking tolerances and line widths, propagation delays of 5-7 ns have been obtained at a power dissipation of 4 mW while achieving circuit packing densities 2.5 times higher than obtainable using the standard buried collector structure with the same masking tolerances. Circuits formed using 2-3 µm tolerances and line widths resulted in propagation delays of 20 ns at 0.4 mW power dissipation."
"An integrated complementary MOS-transistor binary counter stage, particularly suited to low-power low-voltage applications, has been realized in monolithic form. The topology of the circuit allows one to group together all p-channel MOSTs and all n-channel MOSTs within two distinct surface areas. This feature results in an appreciable reduction of the surface necessary for a given circuit function. Dynamic current consumption is about 10 nA per kHz at a supply voltage of 1.35 volts. The complementary type of substrate is obtained by etching and epitaxially refilling wells in the original substrate material. Technological problems which had to be solved in order to achieve low-power low-voltage operation in complementary integrated MOS circuits will be discussed."
"Dielectric isolation has proven effective in raising inter-device breakdown voltages, lowering parasitic capacitances, and increasing resistance to radiation damage. The fabrication of a dielectric-isolated substrate, prior to diffusions, requires adequate control of the thickness of the epitaxial layer, of crowning and warpage, and of a necessarily smooth, damage-free surface. The mere juxtaposition of three or more layers of different materials, even before diffusion-induced strains, creates special problems because of coefficient-of-expansion mismatches. In addition, the substrates must pass through subsequent diffusion cycles and permit the fabrication of transistors with characteristics as good as (or better than) those made on p-n junction isolated substrates. There are three major methods of using silicon dioxide as a dielectric to separate active areas of an integrated circuit: 1) shape-back to the channels of a wafer which has had channels etched out and filled with polycrystalline silicon; 2) etch out and fill in with single crystal on an n+wafer which has already had isolation moats created; and 3) growth of polycrystalline silicon prior to etching the isolating channels. This paper describes and compares these methods."
"Boron ion implantation has been used to fabricate high sheet resistance p-type junction resistors in silicon substrates. Thermally grown SiO2and conventional photolithography were employed to define the resistor geometries. Ion doses in the range 0.5 × 1013to 10 × 1013ions/cm2with energies ranging from 30 to 55 keV followed by anneal at 950°C were used. The temperature coefficient of resistance (TCR), voltage coefficient of resistance (VCR), junction Characteristics, and noise level of these resistors have been studied for sheet resistances ρx, from 0.8 to 11 kΩ/square. Over this range of sheet resistances the TCR increases smoothly from approximately 800 to 4000 PPM/°C with the lower TCR corresponding to the lower sheet resistance. For 3 kΩ square implanted resistors, the variation of resistance with temperature closely matches that found for a standard boron base and resistor (B&R) diffusion having a sheet resistance of 140 Ω/square. The junction leakage and the noise level of the implanted resistors can be made comparable to that obtained for diffused resistors. The implanted resistor exhibits a positive VCR, which increases with increasing sheet resistance as a result of depletion-layer pinch-off action from the substrate. Details of the implant conditions and process control are discussed. Experimental results demonstrating the compatibility of the resistor implantation process with microcircuits using low current, high β diffused bipolar transistors are presented."
"Study of the silicon-silicon dioxide system as a junction between a nearly ideal semiconductor and insulator has aroused both scientific and technological interest. Surface phenomena associated with this system are influenced by contamination and imperfections in the oxide, impurity redistribution in the silicon near the oxide, and finally by additional electronic energy states at the oxide-silicon interface. Over the past few years, the MOS (metal-oxide-semiconductor) approach has been highly developed and is the principal tool for the investigation of silicon surface phenomena. The theory of the ideal MOS capacitor is reviewed followed by a study of its use in the analysis of surface effects. Finally, the three-way relationship of the effect of oxide formation conditions and heat treatment on the properties of the oxidized silicon surface, and the subsequent influence of the properties of this surface on semiconductor device parameters is reviewed."
"The growth of oxide layers on silicon is frequently carried out during the fabrication of integrated circuits. This paper describes the results of the study of the oxide layer and the Si-SiO2interface in a MOS configuration, by a photoelectric technique. The interface barrier height and the built-in voltage VMSin the oxide layer of a MOS structure are measured. The effect of ion migration has been studied by subjecting the structure to bias-heat (BH) treatment. We have constructed the band energy diagram for a p-type 0.001 Ω ċ cm MOS structure, both before and after BH treatment. The photoelectric technique is found to be a convenient tool to study and compare different oxidation processes."
"The threshold voltage of MOSFET devices can be effectively stabilized from changes due to field-assisted motion of Na+in the gate oxide by the addition of a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) layer. The effectiveness of the glass for this purpose is markedly enhanced by increasing the P2O5concentration of the PSG. However, polarization of the PSG layer can, in turn, cause an appreciable instability of the threshold voltage. It is shown that detailed knowledge of the behavior of PSG layers permits prediction of the threshold stability of P2O5-treated FET devices. Thus, threshold stability can be maintained to within 0.1 V/1000 Å under device operating conditions by making a proper compromise on PSG thickness and P2O5concentration. Such stabilizing films offer satisfactory protection against realistic Na+contamination levels. Quantitative data on these phenomena are presented, and a simple structural model is given to account for the polarization and the Na+trapping behavior of the films. The formation of PSG films by doping of SiO2with P2O5at elevated temperatures is discussed."
"Important applications of dielectric films used in modern integrated circuit technology include dielectric insulation, surface passivation, diffusion masking, radiation resistance, and hermetic seal. These many functional applications pose stringent requirements on the various properties of the insulating films and the methods used for their preparation. To date silicon dioxide (SiO2) has been used almost exclusively because of 1) its ease of preparation, 2) its well-understood properties, and 3) its generally good compatibility and satisfactory interface with silicon. There are, however, drawbacks to the use of SiO2and other materials have been sought for better performance, greater versatility, higher reliability, and lower cost. These include binary metal oxides and silicon nitride. The state of the art of thin film dielectric materials for microelectronics is reviewed in this paper. The role of thin film dielectrics for devices is presented, and new and known materials are discussed for potential applications."
"The advantages and limitations of aluminum metallization are reviewed and compared with other systems used for integrated circuits. Metallization system properties of particular importance are summarized, including initial physical and chemical properties of the system which define potential performance and reliability considerations. The special requirements for MOS arrays and for multilevel-metallized integrated circuits are described. Recently available knowledge of aluminum metallization process technology and of metallization-related failure mechanisms is reviewed, and new results of experimental studies are presented. It is concluded that aluminum will continue to be the most widely used metallization material, not only for single-level metallized integrated circuits, but also for multilevel LSI arrays."
"An investigation into single and composite layered metallization systems is described with respect to their limitations, possible failure mechanisms, and problems encountered in fabrication. Systems investigated include metals such as chromium, titanium, tungsten, and molybdenum in conjunction with gold. Comparisons are made to conventional aluminum with respect to ohmic contact to silicon, metallurgical reactions, behavior in adverse environmental conditions, method of deposition, and processing difficulties."
"Two wear-out type failure modes involving aluminum metallization for semiconductor devices are described. Both modes involve mass transport by momentum exchange between conducting electrons and metal ions. The first failure mode is the formation of an electrically open circuit due to the condensation of vacancies in the aluminum to form voids. The second is the formation of etch pits into silicon by the dissolution of silicon into aluminum, and the transport of the solute ions down the aluminum conductor away from the silicon-aluminum interface by electron wind forces. The process continues until an etch pit grows into the silicon to a depth sufficient to short out an underlying junction."
"The several interfacial regions where voids and electrical opens occur in semiconductor discrete devices and monolithic integrated circuits are described. The metals used at these interfaces in circuits today are listed and a description is given of the void-producing mechanisms applicable to each area, along with techniques for their detection. Voids which develop in the bond of gold wire, which is ball bonded to aluminum metalization as a result of intermetallic purple plague formation, are explained as an example of the Kirkendall effect. However, the faster diffusion of one of the metals of a bond producing voids cannot explain the observation of voids in both the gold and the aluminum side of the bond. Recent thin film experiments account for this effect by a process which is rate limited by diffusion through the newly formed intermetallic phase. Analysis of five newer alternate metalization systems for circuits show them all to have the potential for compound formation, which may be expected to be accompanied by void formation."
"A multichip package is described which is composed of an alumina ceramic base, screen-printed gold and glass crossovers, photolithographically delineated copper conductors, a brazed on Kovar lead frame, indium-copper flip-chip bonded integrated circuit chips, and a glass-severa, interfaces between dissimilar metals, between metals and insulators, and between different insulators. The reasons for selection of the various materials for these interfaces are presented. The major innovation in this package, the indium-copper flip-chip bond, is discussed both from a processing viewpoint and from an analytical viewpoint, supported by diffusion, X-ray crystallographic, and metallurgical data."
"The long-term reliability of plastic encapsulated integrated circuits in humid environments is ultimately limited by the effects of entering moisture. Degradation of device characteristics may be acceptable in some types of circuits, but catastrophic failures (\"opens\" and \"shorts\") are certainly not acceptable. Catastrophic failures can occur in a) the metalization used on the silicon chip itself, b) the internal wires, beam leads or frames, and c) the interfaces between these parts (and others) used in making a complete package. Entry of moisture permits electrochemical corrosion or deplating and replating of metals. This occurs under operating conditions, accelerated by externally applied potentials, and also in the unoperated condition due to EMFs produced by couples between dissimilar metals or by built-in potentials of p-n junctions. Choice of metal systems, platings, and passivation geometries determine the useful life and modes of failure of plastic encapsulated integrated circuits exposed to moisture."
"Integrated circuits mounted on ceramic substrates must be protected from moisture and from mechanical damage by an encapsulation system which must have the same long term stability as the device itself. For Bell System use, beam-lead silicon nitride protected circuits are subjected to greater than 300°C long term aging as well as to high temperature steam to accelerate failures; thus encapsulants must have the same stability. A silicone-based encapsulation system which meets these rigid requirements is described in this paper. A number of resins and rubbers have been evaluated for their ability to maintain low leakage currents under high humidity conditions by measurement of the leakage on coated metallized ceramics under both high humidity and liquid water environments. An accelerated aging program was carried out to establish the long term stability of these coating systems from the standpoint of their moisture protecting abilities. The data show that the extrapolated lifetime of the silicone coatings is about the same as that established for the integrated circuits at their operating temperature. From consideration of published permeability data and the results obtained in this study, it appears that the mechanism of protection against moisture is the inactivation of sites on the surface where water can adsorb or condense to form a continuous film of water which could lead to electrical leakage currents on either the device or substrate surfaces. The best protection is thus afforded by those materials that either chemically react with the surface or are strongly adsorbed at the sites where water would normally condense."
"A three-dimensional analytical approximation for the thermal impedance of a beam-lead IC package is obtained by calculating the thermal resistance of the individual elements and solving by the electrothermal analog technique. For a single chip package, thermal impedance values are presented for both a centrally located 0.005 inch diameter junction area and a source evenly distributed over the active surface of the chip under the following mounting conditions: a) package with external leads heat-sinked; b) package with ceramic base heat-sinked; c) chip thermally isolated on Al2O3substrate. Also, variations in the thermal impedance of the package with changes in the chip component dimensions are shown graphically. For arrays of beam-lead chips on small ceramic substrates, curves are presented for the upper and lower boundaries of maximum chip power as a function of the number of chips appliqued to the substrate. The results indicate that the relatively low power levels which are characteristic of most logic-type beam-lead devices create no thermal problems when packaged individually. However, for large chip arrays the ability of a particular substrate to dissipate the heat generated may be a limiting factor even for these seemingly insignificant power levels."
"As the structural and functional complexities in integrated circuits increase, yield prediction becomes as important as the calculation of electrical characteristics. This paper analyzes the yield loss resulting from the presence of the epitaxial mound, a material defect found very frequently on the epitaxial surface. The peculiarity of this yield-loss mechanism, especially in a contact printing system, is that not only does it act as a crystallographic imperfection but its damage accumulates on the emulsion or chromium photomask and thus propagates to other slices. Statistical investigations on its behavior have shown that the latter effect can be more detrimental than the former in large scale integration. These results are summarized in a simple mathematical expression that is used for yield prediction. Using the model, the damage by the epitaxial mound has been shown to be reduced by an improvement in photoetching process management, though the ideal solution lies in the reduction of the mound itself or in the use of a noncontact printing system."
"In order to facilitate the utilization of precision computer-controlled equipment to make mask patterns, a user-oriented pattern description language has been devised. The language, designated PREP, for Programmed Electronics Patterns, has statements for programming the elements of mask patterns. Out of these can be constructed libraries of subroutines describing integrated circuit components. Additional PREP statements can be used to build up the total pattern of a set of masks from the subroutines. The PREP language is translated by a computer into a pattern."
"Spatial filtering is shown to be an effective method for integrated circuit photomask inspection. Results show that errors of 0.2 mils can be detected using f/9.5 lenses and that the use of f/2.0 lenses detects errors of below 0.1 mil. Contamination, missing and added features, and step and repeat errors are all displayed. The method allows the observation of nonperiodic errors and can be used immediately for contamination inspection with very little increase in sensitivity. The procedure only needs alignment of the mask in rotation, and means that the mask can be totally inspected by scanning it through a laser beam."
"Both yield and quality of silicon monolithic integrated circuits depend on adequate control at all stages of their manufacture. Such control depends on measurement at each step, beginning with the selection of the substrate wafer, process chemicals, and parts, through the fabrication, assembly, and packaging of the finished circuit. The American Society for Testing and Materials Committee F-1 has developed standards for tests which have been widely used in the exchange of materials at various interfaces in the electron device industry. Many of these can be readily adapted for in-process control as well as for materials and parts acceptance tests. These standards and the process by which they were developed are reviewed; the importance of both industrial participation and the technical support activities of the National Bureau of Standards in this development is indicated. The need for additional standards is emphasized."
"An efficient method of packing domestic communications satellites is described. In this method, inclined elliptical synchronous orbits are used instead of inclined circular synchronous orbits. The total number of communications satellites is, for example, 8.4 times larger than that for the equatorial system only."
"Explicit design and sensitivity equations are given for an active distributed RC network. This network is used to approximate a low-pass transfer function with a pair of complex poles. The expression for the transient response shows that the dominant poles alone yield a good approximation."
"It is shown that under certain circumstances the magnitude of the voltage reflection coefficient Γ can exceed unity even for a passive load. It is possible to deal with such problems on an extension of the normally used Smith chart. Two numerical examples are given as illustrations of the use of this extended chart."
"The problem of applying horizontal and/or vertical parity checks for error detection to actual burst channels is considered. It is demonstrated that a single-dimension parity check will achieve two to four orders-of-magnitude improvement, and, within the limit of the data sample, both dimensions together detect all errors."
"A corner reflector excited by a tilted log-periodic dipole antenna is shown to radiate a circularly polarized unidirectional signal. Mathematical expressions for the radiation patterns have been developed using the image theory. Theoretical plots for the far-zone radiation fields are given."
"Emission spectra of GaAs light-emitting diodes are studied to investigate the absorption that occurs in the alloyed ohmic contacts. The absorption is demonstrated by constructing diodes where much of the back contact is covered by SiO2and comparing them with those that have an alloyed contact over the entire reverse side of the die."
"Sonic waves induced by the shock of the laser-produced vapor from brass and graphite are observed in air at atmospheric pressure, using high-speed shadowgraphs. The energy transferred from the laser-produced vapor to the sonic wave is estimated to be about 10-1of the laser energy."
"A method is discussed which uses operational amplifiers to realize a system function T(s) whose poles and zeros are independently controlled. When the poles are simple and different, (n + 1) operational amplifiers are required, n of which are used as integrators, plus one that is used as a summing amplifier, where n is the degree of the denominator polynomial. When the poles occur in conjugate complex pairs or when higher order poles exist, more than (n + 1) operational amplifiers are required."
"The efficiency of an LSA oscillator can be increased by adding the second harmonic for dc bias electric fields up to 12 kV/cm. For higher bias fields, a third-harmonic content seems to be preferable. With second harmonic present, 30 percent efficiency appears possible at 11 kV/cm dc bias."
"The relationship between the input and output signal-to-noise ratios in logarithmic amplifiers is derived for the large and small input signal-to-noise ratios. It is shown that with a properly chosen bias, the logarithmic amplifiers improve the output signal-to-noise ratios under all input signal-to-noise ratios."
"The impedances of four varactor diodes are conjugately matched at the fundamental and second-harmonic frequencies to allow parallel operation. This arrangement can increase the power output since all diodes have minimum thermal resistance."
"High-level conditions at the emitter-base junction and current crowding have both been invoked to explain gain falloff at high collector currents in bipolar transistors. Results indicating that high-level conditions in lightly doped collector regions may also lead to current gain reduction at high-current densities are presented; a dependence of gain on Ic-1has been found experimentally."
"A technique is described for generating a steady-state, well-behaved plasma discharge throughout a length of metallic waveguide without a dielectric container. The plasma is generated by a simple cold cathode discharge in helium and exhibits no instabilities or striations for an appreciable range of pressure and current."
"The electrothermal efficiency of a recently developed 50-Hz continuous operation plasma torch has been established. A new electronic system for measuring arc power input was developed. Using it as a reference standard, the relative errors were evaluated which arise if thermal or dynamometer wattmeters are used for this power input measurement. The thermal output was measured by a specially developed parallel-flow self-jacketed calorimeter. The salient observation is that this torch has an electrothermal efficiency greater than 60 percent. This is higher than previously reported figures for ac plasma torches intended for continuous operation."
"This letter describes an infrared modulator making use of free-carrier absorption in germanium. The modulator, useful in the spectral band between 9 µ and 30 µ, achieves a good degree of modulation up to the megahertz range, with a control power of one watt."
"Asymptotic expressions are derived for the tails of the spectrum of the output of a hard limiter when the input is a video Gaussian process. It is shown that the coefficients in the expansion depend upon the derivatives of the input covariance function near τ=0."
"An operational amplifier all-pass network is developed."
"Limited success is reported in growing a thallium-doped silicon crystal, partially compensated with phosphorus. A diode constructed of this material gives a negative-differential resistance at the onset of double injection."
"A phase principle for measuring the temperature of a radio or radar antenna is described. The phase principle makes use of phase information exclusively and is therefore insensitive to receiver gain fluctuations. Under certain conditions the potential accuracy of the measurement is somewhat better than the potential accuracy of the corresponding measurement resulting from a balanced Dicke radiometer."
"A simple, light-weight pulse-radar altimeter package has been designed and tested to accurately measure altitudes of meteorological balloons. This altimeter uses a superregenerative RF stage which is controlled by an adaptive feedback system. Altitudes to 20 km have been measured accurately over Lake Michigan using a peak power of one watt."
"An early work by Morgan describes four types of interfering responses in superheterodynes. In this letter, it is pointed out that all four are examples of the larger class of mixer p-q responses. Furthermore, one of Morgan's formulas predicts responses that are not observed in practice."
"A tunnel diode oscillating at 804 MHz is shown to produce an 8 dB self-pumped parametric amplification of an input signal at 7.24 GHz. No external pumping power is required."
"The modulation sensitivity, linearity, and FM noise performance of a mm IMPATT oscillator is described. It is shown that when the oscillator is FM modulated with short rise time pulses, the detected FM pulses show almost no distortion compared to the original modulating baseband pulses."
"A logic circuit is described which employs interaction between two Gunn devices to achieve a symmetrical bimodal form of operation. Experimental results with a 2-GHz circuit indicate extremely high switching speed and an input sensitivity of less than a few hundred mV. The ease of interfacing this circuit with conventional solid-state circuits is also reported. The reduced interfacing problem suggests a wide variety of applications."
"A theoretical relationship is derived for pulsed liquid laser wavelength at threshold in media with dispersive emission and absorption. The relationship is in qualitative agreement with results of experiments on a variable length, uniformly pumped, flashlamp excited Rhodamine 6G organic dye laser and with published data."
"Horowitz's active RC synthesis procedure with a voltage controlled current source is combined with Sheingold's realization of the active element using a differential-input operational amplifier to derive a circuit for an all-pass filter of any arbitrary order, having poles confined to the negative real axis only. Illustrative examples are worked out for the first- and second-order cases."
"Measurements of the effects of applied bias, temperature, and load resistance on Gunn oscillator performance have been made. Broad-band frequency tuning and mode switching has been observed which can be related to changes of domain capacitance with applied voltage and temperature."
"A simple physical interpretation of the multiple-node removal algorithm for both Coates' flow graph and Mason's signal-flow graph is presented. It is shown that the transmittances associated with the branches of a reduced flow graph can be interpreted as the graph transmissions of certain subgraphs."
"Results of material research and circuit development for high-efficiency GaAs transferred electron oscillators are described, Single-chip devices have been operated with efficiencies as high as 32.2 percent at L-band frequencies. Devices made by paralleling chips have yielded powers as high as 220 watts with 23.2 percent efficiency."
"Experimental evidence is presented showing a direct correlation between dielectric breakdown and shock wave generation in liquids. A method for making threshold measurements for shock wave generation is considered and the results for one case shown."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A new adaptation algorithm designed for real-time data processing in large antenna arrays is presented. The algorithm is used to determine the set of filter coefficients (weights) which minimizes the mean-square error in a multidimensional linear filter. The algorithm forms an estimate of the target signal, which is assumed to be of interest, in the presence of interfering noises. It is assumed that the direction of arrival and spectral density of the target signal are known a priori. No such information is assumed to be available regarding the structure of the interfering noise field. The a priori target information is incorporated directly into the adaptation procedure using a modified gradient descent technique. The mathematical convergence properties of the algorithm are presented and a computer simulation experiment is used as an illustration. It is shown that as the number of iterations becomes large, the expected value of the adaptive solution converges to the minimum mean-square-error solution. It is further shown that the variance of the adapted filter about the optimum solution can be made arbitrarily small by appropriate choice of a scalar constant in the algorithm. These results are based on the assumption that the array signals are Gaussian and that successive time samples are statistically uncorrelated. Thus, the new algorithm is shown to converge to the optimum processor in the limit as the number of adaptations becomes large. Any disadvantage which may arise in the use of such an asymptotically optimum system is offset by the extreme simplicity of the adaptive procedure. This simplicity should prove to be particularly useful in many of the practical array processing problems recently encountered in seismic and sonar data processing."
"This paper sets forth a rather general analysis pertaining to the performance and synthesis of generalized tracking systems. The analysis is based upon the theory of continuous Markov processes, in particular, the Fokker-Planck equation. We point out the interconnection between the theory of continuous Markov processes and Maxwell's wave equations by interpreting the charge density as a transition probability density function (pdf). These topics presently go under the name of probabilistic potential theory. Although the theory is valid for (N+1)-order tracking systems with an arbitrary, memoryless, periodic nonlinearity, we study in detail the case of greatest practical interest, viz., a second-order tracking system with sinusoidal nonlinearity. In general we show that the transition pdf p(y, t|y0, t0) is the solution to an (N+1)-dimensional Fokker-Planck equation. The vector (y, t)=(φ, y1,..., yN, t) is Markov and φ represents the system phase error. According to the theory the transition pdf's {p(φ, t|φ0, t0), P(yk, t0|yk0, t0); k=1,..., N} of the state variables satisfy a set of second-order partial differential equations which represent equations of flow taking place in each direction of (N+1)-space. Each equation, and solution, is characterized by a potential function Uk(yk, t); which is related to the nonlinear restoring force hk(yk, t)=-∇Uk(yk, t); k=0, 1,..., N. In turn the potential functions are completely determined by the set of conditional expectations {E(yk, t|φ), E(g(φ), t|y); k=1, 2,..., N}. It is conjectured that the potential functions represent the projections of the system Lyapunov function which characterizes system stability. This paper explores these relationships in detail."
"Trapped energy resonators and transducers have attained a considerable importance in quartz crystal technology both as single-frequency resonators for the control of crystal oscillators and as drivers for the monolithic crystal filter which appears likely to have a wide use as a channel filter for the separation of voice frequency channels for long-distance carrier systems, microwave radio, and submarine cable systems. It is the purpose of this paper to derive the equations for trapped energy resonators of the thickness-shear and thickness-twist types and to calculate the ratios of capacitances for straight crested waves. It turns out that the ratios are lower (coupling higher) than are observed in practice. It appears that this difference is connected with the finite width of the plate which causes the motion at the edge of the plate to be somewhat smaller than the motion in the center of the plate. While no exact solution has been obtained for the finite plate, an approximation is made which is in good agreement with the experiment. The resonator on a plate is a symmetrical device, whereas a transducer for driving a monolithic filter is a dissymmetrical device since it is driving different impedances on its two boundaries. To represent this dissymmetry requires a distributed network representation which is somewhat similar to that found for a plane longitudinal or shear wave except that the propagation constant for a trapped wave replaces that of the plane wave. The representation also requires a transformer whose transformation ratio is a function of the frequency and two negative element terms. By transformations the negative elements can be made to disappear. These together produce an equivalent circuit whose values depend on the ratio of the electrode length to the crystal thickness."
"This paper calculates the error at the output of a digital filter using floating-point arithmetic operations due to roundoff accumulation and input quantization. Expressions are derived for the mean square error for each of the three canonical forms of realization: direct, cascade, and parallel. Upper bounds that are useful for a special class of filters are given. The theoretical result is found to be in good agreement with the experimental result."
"For electromagnetic propagation in linear dispersive media, two definitions of energy transport velocity may be introduced. The first is the transport velocity of total stored energy density, and it was first discussed by Brillouin. This concept does not distinguish different forms of energy, but considers only the total. It is equal to the group velocity for the case of a lossless dispersive medium. Its significance is not fully understood for a maser medium where it is either greater than the velocity of light or negative, or for a dissipative dispersive medium where it does not seem to offer a simple description of the propagation process. The second is the transport velocity of electromagnetic energy. It is based on the distinction of propagating energy which is just electric and magnetic field energy, from localized energy which is stored in the degrees of freedom of the dispersive medium. Thus propagation involves electromagnetic propagation per se, plus a transfer of energy between the propagating and localized forms. This transport velocity is always less than the velocity of light, for absorbing and maser media alike. It may be determined through a gain or attenuation measurement since it enters the gain equation of electromagnetic transmission structures."
"Light-modulator displays can be built so that an unexcited element delivers either maximum or minimum light to the observer. For scanned displays, the duty factor for an individual element is in general less than unity, so that the contrast available from the display will be less than the contrast from an individual element considered in isolation. If the display is so arranged that unenergized elements produce minimum light, contrast is not as severely degraded by duty factors less than unity as it is if unenergized elements produce maximum light. The same conclusion holds for light-emitting displays."
"A technique for the manufacture of flexible compressible transducers is presented based on the use of piezoelectric ceramic powder dispersed in a silicone rubber medium. Potential applications are discussed."
"The probability of peak sidelobe level of a random array is obtained for any given probability density of element positions. The method is based on the sampling theorem for band-limited functions. These results are applicable to small as well as large arrays. In the case of large arrays, they coincide with those obtained earlier by Lo through a different argument. In addition, this method shows the effect of probabilistic distribution of the elements on the sidelobe level."
"The possible values of the number of messages generated by an information source which can be encoded into complete tree codes for successive coding alphabet sizes 2, 3, 4,..., D are derived. Properties and relations for the smallest such values are given."
"It is shown that the components of gate leakage current of a MOSFET used in a previously described unity gain buffer amplifier may be reduced to a minimum under static and dynamic conditions. Modified packaging and novel biasing techniques can minimize both extrinsic and intrinsic components of gate leakage current at the input to the amplifier."
"The performance of the synchronized analog integrate-and-dump filter is compared with an equivalent digital implementation. Degradation in the output SNR of the digital filter due to sampling is computed. A first order prefilter is assumed and quantization noise is neglected."
"The U. S. Navy Navigation Satellite System and the Geodetic SECOR satellite system both employ two widely separated carrier frequencies to permit an error correction to be made for ionospheric refraction. It is shown that this same two-frequency technique can be employed within the narrow bandwidth of a VHF communications satellite repeater to permit ranging signals transmitted through the repeater to be corrected for ionospheric refraction error."
"An application of the high power/energy density available from a focused laser beam is presented as a means of transferring an ink-like substance from a substrate onto a recording medium. This technique will permit wide-band recording with instant readout."
"A microwave phase stabilization feedback circuit used with injection-locking increases the locking range of a Gunn oscillator and reduces the voltage fluctuations in the bias circuit."
"A series representation is derived for a class of bivariate probability density functions. The representation uses orthonormal sets generated by the first-order density functions."
"A high-voltage thin-film FET, with a voltage gain of at least 40, is described. The I-V characteristics-of these units are not predicted by conventional thin-film transistor theory."
"A new instability problem associated with numerical integration of circuit equations is pointed out. A change of state variables is shown as a means of avoiding the problem."
"A new method of near-logarithmic companding is proposed. The method consists of first uniformly quantizing each sample and then processing the resulting binary number digitally. This is in contrast to the usual scheme of first compressing the input and then uniformly quantizing it. The method presented here is extremely simple to implement and requires no arithmetic operations. The inverse transformation is equally simple to implement."
"Simple formulas for quick and easy calculation of the transfer characteristics of a specific kind of ladder network have been developed starting from the Fibonacci relationship of the network. Examples calculating the characteristics are also given."
"A formula and an iterative algorithm are given for converting a continued fraction into a rational function."
"Thin-film transistors were made on polycrystalline CdSe-CdTe semiconducting films prepared by flash evaporation of mixed CdSe and CdTe powders."
"A general approach is given to the problem of stabilizing impedances that are stable under constant-current conditions but unstable under constant-voltage conditions. This approach is then applied to the problem of stabilizing supercritical GaAs amplifiers."
"This letter points out the inadequacy of the conventional qualitative small-signal description of the operation of the Read type of avalanche diode and demonstrates that, with a slight extension of the conventional argument, one can arrive at a pedagogical model which predicts the gross features of more detailed quantitative theories."
"Using a simple model, the propagation of a pulse modulated sinusoidal signal through a dispersive channel is considered. It is demonstrated that there is an optimum receiver bandwidth in the sense of minimizing the stretching of the detected modulation envelope."
"Microwave oscillations in a new III-V compound, AlxGa1-xAs, have been observed. The material has a high energy gap and hence a potential for high power devices. Peak power outputs of 2.64 watts at 11.34 GHz with an efficiency of 1 percent were obtained in samples with low aluminum contents. There is evidence of high internal resistance in the present samples which may be the cause of low efficiency. Heating effect during pulse and mode jump in oscillation are also observed."
"The phenomenon of \"popcorn noise\" is discussed and shown to exist in integrated wideband amplifiers when an input transistor of the amplifier exhibits a negative resistance region in the reverse-biased collector-base characteristic. A correlation is drawn between \"popcorn noise\" and \"microplasma noise.\""
"A solution is developed for determining the weighting coefficients of a feed-forward MTI Radar Filter so that maximum clutter attenuation is achieved. For certain realistic assumptions, the weighting coefficients which give maximum clutter attenuation are shown to he the same as those provided by cascading delay canceller filters."
"The RF operating voltage of power transistors designed for operation in the HF, VHF, and UHF regions has been found to be greater than previously realized. This higher operating voltage is attributed to the slow response of the device surface with respect to the operating frequency of the circuit. Since most devices have breakdown voltages which are initially surface limited, their voltage operation at the higher frequencies is superior to the 60-cycle curve tracer behavior."
"The condition for maximizing the pattern gain function at an angle θ0measured from the beam axis is derived for symmetric pencil beams. The half-power beamwidth of the beam and the maximum gain that can be realized at the off-axis position are completely determined by specification of the angle θ0."
"This letter shows that the all-pass network function with arbitrary second-order complex poles and zeros can be realized by feedbacking the output of a Wien bridge circuit using a differential amplifier. The merit of this method is that the center frequency and amount of delay can be adjusted independently by changing two parameters. Recently various methods of realization of RC active all-pass networks have been suggested [1]-[4]. The advantages of the present method using a Wien bridge and a differential amplifier are 1) that the all-pass network function with arbitrary second-order complex poles and zeroes can be realized; and 2) that the delay characteristics can easily be adjusted in both frequency and delay axes."
"Metal-nitride-oxide-semiconductor (MNOS) field-effect transistors can be changed from enhancement mode to depletion mode after the application of polarizing voltage. When such a polarized MNOS device is used as a load in a switching circuit, the supply voltage and the rise time are reduced."
"The purpose of this letter is to initiate a study of the question of Lp(p≥1) stability of a larger class of nonlinear feedback systems whose forward loop is represented by a truncated Volterra series of the form (Ax)(t) = Σn = 1m < ∞∫0t∫0tKn(t; τ1, ... τn) Πi = 1nx(τi)dτi. It is demonstrated that under suitable conditions the open-loop system A is continuous and boundaed, and maps Lp[0, ∞) into Lp[0, ∞). It is shown that if the corresponding (unity gain) feedback system has a solution in some Lebesgue class Lp(0 > p ≥ ∞), then the output of the feedback system belongs to the same class as the input."
"CW up-conversion of 10.6-micron radiation to 0.96 micron has been obtained in proustite. Detailed data on acceptance angle are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper, an introduction to this issue devoted to technology and health services, points out that health systems represent a major electronic market and fertile ground for electrical engineering research and development. After a brief description of the current status of health care in the United States, the author discusses the ways in which technology can contribute to the health care system. These contributions are divided into four categories: expansion of the population served, improvement of medical instrumentation, control of the costs of health care, and development of specific health care system components. The coverage of a number of the other papers in this issue is described briefly."
"The medical care crisis in the United States is attributable to a number of factors, among which are the shortage of physicians, the increased demands for care, and the inefficient use of existing facilities. Decent medical care for everyone is nevertheless a realistic goal. Essential to its achievement are the contributions that engineers can make."
"This paper gives an account of the increased need for engineering experts within the Swedish medical services against a background of the developments in this field. The Swedish definition of the term medical engineering is defined and examples are given of techniques which have been developed in Sweden, and that are not internationally known yet, or which are used more extensively in Sweden than in other countries. Descriptions are given of an X-ray spectrophotometer for the determination of the content of bone salts and of an X-ray television system. The use of a Mingograf for the recording to ECG and EEG and different methods and equipment for screening tests on large population groups, i.e., the AutoChemist, are covered. This paper also talks about ultrasonic equipment for recording in intensive care departments, dialysis methods, different data processing procedures, and the development of advanced prosthetics and orthosis. The future of medical engineering and the training of medical technicians in Sweden are discussed and emphasis is placed on the rapid developments that are taking place in medical engineering. The importance of the intensification and extension of international cooperation within the field is stressed and also the work on classification and standardization is discussed."
"This paper outlines some of the principal problems preventing the delivery of adequate health care to all people in the United States. Important among these is the insufficient number of physicians and medical students, particularly from minority groups. These problems must be overcome before the advancements achieved through the joint efforts of medicine and technology can effectively reach all sectors of the population."
"It is clear that hospitals today are beset by manifold problems. Some of these vexing problems are amenable to solution by engineering science and technology. It is a cause for concern that the full impact of engineering has not made itself felt on finding solutions to these problems. The reasons for this failure include: 1) inappropriate approaches to the problems, particularly failure to recognize that many of the problems are of a discrete, project-oriented type, 2) the interaction between individual engineers and medical personnel has often been ineffective, 3) the resources brought to bear on these problems have been inadequate, 4) the hospitals are not economically motivated to avail themselves of technologic advances. Specific suggestions are made as to how these deterrents to effective action might be overcome."
"The fragmented and disorganized nature of health care programs and services acts to impede the acceptance of the technological developments and modern business practices needed to provide comprehensive health services of high quality for every person. A national system in the U.S. to provide for a coherent and comprehensive program of medical research, development, and health care services is described as operated under the structure of a Health Maintenance Corporation. Financial support for technological developments would be provided by a National Health Insurance program and health services would be provided by a national network of group practice prepaid health care plans. The administrative, organizational, and operational arrangements of other public and private services are related to the needs of a modern health care system to suggest how to adopt and exploit technologies from those sectors."
"This paper has been designed to examine the programs and aspirations assigned to the National Center for Health Services Research and Development which has just recently been created in Washington, D. C. This Center will be supported by grants and contracts, and will endeavor to promote, support, and stimulate a national program of health-services research, development, and demonstrations. More specifically, the National Center for Health Services Research and Development will attempt to make health services available to all people and to assist all health professions in their efforts to improve their ability to assess the quality of their services. It will also investigate the comparative costs of alternative methods of providing and financing health services and experiment with architectural designs, site locations, plans, and new methods of construction. The Center will try to increase the efficiency of health services by developing new methods of training and using personnel. Applying and refining computer technology in screening techniques, automation of medical records, and selected other aspects of medical care process will be included in the program, as well as methods for accelerating the applications of new or improved techniques for the prevention, treatment, and control of diseases and other disabilities. The Center will design and initially operate experimental health-services systems in both urban and rural areas. It will make multi-disciplinary analyses of the organization and functioning of all components of the health-services system and will increase academic resources for training health-services research and for developing personnel. The Center will establish and operate a health-services data system relevant to research and development, planning, policy making, and management. Much of this paper discusses the opportunities which exist in the development of computer technology in the United States in relation to the delivery of health care."
"Technology offers the health services potentials for improving the quality and scope of medical care, for extending the capacities of health workers, and for gaining control of costs. However, there are obstacles to achieving these potentials, some inherent in the nature and tradition of the medical care process, and some in the structure of management incentives in hospitals and industries that might contribute useful products and services. Spontaneously, professionals from the biomedical and physical sciences have formed coalitions to pursue a variety of technological developments. Most such projects seek an appropriate institutional setting, organizational relationship, and source of support. They seek an optimal balance of institutional, industrial, and government participation. This paper presents a basis for dividing the costs of development between public and private investment and proposes the staging of technological development through trials in government, private, and educational health services. An estimate of justifiable development investments in health technology is an order of magnitude higher than current levels, suggesting that development funds should be viewed as a tax on the revenue stream of the health services rather than a source of competition for research funds."
"The present paper represents a summary of the findings of a six month study of health care in the western Pennsylvania region, conducted by the Biotechnology Program of Carnegie-Mellon University during 1968. The study, one of six, was commissioned by the Committee on Engineering in Medicine and Biology of the National Academy of Engineering. A parallel study of Bioengineering in Pennsylvania, sponsored by the Pennsylvania Science and Engineering Foundation of the Department of Commerce, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, was conducted simultaneously with the NAE study. Major conclusions of this paper center about the need for introduction of modern technology into the health care industry."
"Medical system engineering is a theoretical discipline which unifies the methods of analysis and synthesis of complex medical systems, medical technology, and public health services in general. The work of medical institutions typically involves an abundance of medical and economic information, basically in statistical form. Mathematical models of medical institutions establish regularities in the mass of empirical information and remove distortions in the statistical data, thereby aiding the work of planning organizations. Considering medical institutions as complex queueing systems involving cost estimates of the institutions themselves and implicit losses connected with delay times, gives a theoretical basis for choosing the parameters of the medical institutions to be economically optimal. To determine these parameters we must solve problems of nonlinear programming. Some particular problems of public health services are studied: i.e., determining the optimal number of beds in a hospital and the optimal number of ambulances, and determining periodicities in conducting prophylactic examinations. The study of the systems of several medical institutions and their influence on the flow of patients leads to the use of the method of statistical simulation. A simulation using the Markov process, changing the random waiting times of individual cases to their mean values, thereby decreasing the variance of the statistical estimates, is considered. A numerical example is given, illustrating one heuristic approach to estimating the accuracy of the results of this type of simulation. The contradiction between the level of scientific achievements of medicine and the possibilities of their wide practical realization is discussed in the framework of the present system of public health services where individual forms of labor prevail, hampering the effective use of medical technology. The importance of computer automation in processing medical information is pointed out."
"In response to the medical conditions presented by patients, physicians call for a number of services such as lab tests, special therapy, bed rest, and physiologic monitoring. These services, delivered within a variety of institutional settings, account for over half of the cost of medical care. The physician's selection of a care regimen for a patient is currently constrained by traditional health service delivery patterns already existing in the community. Forecasting the demand for services on the basis of these traditional patterns, therefore, will tend to perpetuate current practice. This paper develops a model of physicians' demands for health services based on medical judgment of required and acceptable care for specific medical conditions. The model provides a convenient framework for abstracting medical opinion in the form of patient-states, care requirements, and disease dynamics. From this data the model determines the time-varying census of patients in each patient-state and generates the time stream of elementary services required to support the medical care of a population. The demand model was developed to assist the innovation of new forms of health service delivery; it may be used to predict the loads on individual service units in service systems that depart from traditional practice."
"The State of New Mexico is proposing to combine existing technology in biomedical instrumentation, telemetry, data handling, and communications, developed for aerospace applications, with new techniques in public health screening, prevention, and emergency medical treatment, to establish an integrated system of health care for people living in remote areas. The system proposed consists of a physician-monitored central control facility communicating with remote site facilities staffed by paramedical personnel of limited training. Instrumentation at the remote sites, together with simplified laboratory test materials, provides information on patient condition which is transmitted to central data processing equipment and displayed for the center duty physician. The proposed system will provide for: a) remote conduct of multiphasic medical screening and identification of existing health needs, b) emergency medical treatment, and c) limited routine medical care and instruction. A major goal of the program is the development of a systems package as an area utility service which could be obtained for any area using methods similar to those for procuring or establishing hospitals, rural electrification, or telephone utilities."
"The accomplishment of significant organizational or technological change in health care institutions rests on an understanding of the Social forces in those institutions which affect the timing and degree of acceptance of change. The important factors which characterize health institutions, such as fragmented power and competitiveness, along with specialization and allegiances to external organizations and groups which characterize health institutions are described. Case examples are cited which illustrate how social and interpersonal factors can dominate decision-making processes related to organizational and technological change. This paper describes decision making as basically a political process. Some suggestions are put forth to aid those persons who are concerned with effecting change in health care institutions."
"For the computer to assist in the medical diagnosis and treatment processes, a series of systematic mathematical algorithms must be developed that correspond in some sense to the reasoning used by the diagnostician. In terms of the propositional calculus of symbolic logic, the patient presents a symptom profile, G, which is a Boolean function of possible symptoms, either present or absent or undetermined. The diagnosis, which is also a Boolean function, f, of possible diseases, is found from the fundamental formula of medical diagnosis, E → (G → f), where E is the Boolean function representing medical knowledge. An example of an elementary computation is given to illustrate the process of solving the fundamental formula. In cases where complete symptom information is unavailable, the computer can apply Bayes' formula, which correlates the conditional probability of having a disease complex given a certain symptom profile with that of having the given symptom profile given the disease complex and the total probability of the patient's having the disease complex. A simple illustrative example is given of the application of Bayes' formula. An \"uncertainty principle\" exists in the collection of statistics for determining the total probability, due to the time lag in processing data. A method is given for handling data from patients presenting incomplete symptom profiles. When medical knowledge is so voluminous as to make impractical the recording of all possible symptom-disease combinations, then techniques developed in pattern-recognition studies can be utilized. The least-probable symptom complex will be omitted, and the loss can be compensated for by comparing the patient's given symptom profile with \"weighted\" possible symptom complexes. Again, an illustrative example is given. After the probabilities for possible alternative diagnoses have been determined, the treatment plan must be determined. We distinguish three basic kinds of problem: 1) treatment decisions under certainty, which involve simple value-theory considerations and linear programming; 2) treatment decisions under risk, where the probabilities of alternative diagnoses are known, which involve optimization of a mathematical expectation; and 3) treatment decisions under uncertainty, where the probabilities of the alternative diagnoses are unknown, which are amenable to the application of \"game theory.\" Such decisions all involve value determinations, which can be broken down into tangible and intangible values. When alternative diagnoses remain, the response of the patient to the treatment chosen is a further symptom, which can be used in reevaluating the diagnosis. In such cases the techniques of dynamic programming may be applied. The problem of determining the transition probabilities of a patient's moving from one state of health to another during a certain course of treatment presents difficulties, and a method for alleviating the problem is presented, utilizing Bayes' formula to process current patient charts instead of relying on past record searches. Conditional probabilities can be further utilized in the comparison of two treatments. Finally, a brief survey is given of applications of computer-diagnosis aids as reported in the literature."
"Computers are used in medicine to assist with the two related tasks of increasing diagnostic precision and of making the improved diagnoses more widely available. Following a brief review of the background of computer-aided medical diagnosis, this paper describes the various automated diagnostic methods and their mathematical bases. The efficacies of several diagnostic procedures are compared. The important matter of the quality of the medical input data is discussed. It is pointed out that, to achieve the goal of wide-spread computer-aided diagnosis it is necessary not only to strengthen medical computing capabilities but also to educate physicians to the advantages of computer diagnosis."
"Specialization of physicians in recent years, coupled with the rapidly growing cost of each specialist's time, has made scheduling an increasingly important problem for group practices and other centralized cooperating groups of physicians. Inefficient or improper scheduling leads to the waste of clinic resources or increased costs to the patient. Current group practice and clinic scheduling systems are noted. A computer-processed symptom-scoring technique for selecting specialties to which a patient should be scheduled is then discussed. The symptoms are provided by the patient by means of a 200-question automated medical history questionnaire which is filled out before the patient arrives at the clinic. A print-out of symptoms reported by the patient is made available to attending physicians. In addition, points are assigned to each symptom for each specialty. Total point scores for each specialty determine which appointments are selected for the patient. The system outperforms current scheduling techniques in initial tests."
"Progress in the electronic data processing industry has been noted with interest by the medical community. A need for improvements in data handling in hospitals exists, particularly in those areas directly involved with patient care. Major objectives of a multipurpose hospital medical data system are identified, in addition to important problems. A pilot medical system is described which consists essentially of a central computer facility connected on-line with a remote multiterminal hospital data system. It is designed for the acquisition, storage, and retrieval of multiple categories of medical data. The basic design incorporates the capability of modular expansion into nearly all professional and administrative hospital functions."
"Computer processing of medical signals for patient testing has emphasized the role of the data acquisition system. Highly standardized medical data acquisition systems are now required for use with computer processing. This paper discusses analog, digital, and hybrid acquisition systems for use with various computer systems and acquisition site environments. The tradeoffs for on-line and off-line processing and signal transmission are reviewed. Modular construction is required to meet the reliability requirements of clinicians and community health programs. Maintainability by personnel available to the user, that is, equipment operators and not necessarily highly skilled electronic technicians, is also discussed."
"Operational data from a multiphasic test center operated by a city health department was subjected to systems analysis to derive implications for improved sensor management. The actual data process used facilities in Richmond, Va., Portland, Ore., and Washington, D. C., and required several weeks to complete assembly. The process had 3808 subjects at an average flow rate of 1.49 subjects per minute. Of this group, 1530 subjects accepted an offer of a free electrocardiogram to be given a week later, but only 82.1 percent actually took the later test. The data analysis was confined to 361 males past the age of 40, but was further restricted to those 252 with complete records. A simulated data process with capability for on-line test modification to assemble partial records and to give retest if necessary was studied. In addition to control of patient apathy and early treatment of suspect individuals, additional benefits may be possible. All abnormal X-rays were found in subjects whose other data considered as an ensemble predicted suspected trouble. The complete system viewpoint implemented by suitable processors may permit more effective use of extremely scarce talent, such as that of radiologists."
"PRIME is an acronym for a subject-oriented computer-based information storage and retrieval system which uses variable length, variable content, natural language, data collection forms. PRIME was developed as a model of a hospital automated information system and has been in operation since March 1965. Experience with this model system has shown that it is important to spend time planning the management and use of the computer system before the system is installed. Education programs for medical staff members and researchers are well worth the effort because it does take effort to get professional staff members to use a computer system. Data collection forms should be designed by the individual who uses them. It helps him to organize his thoughts about his project. Some conclusions about the administrative aspects of an automated information system in a hospital are presented."
"Clinical laboratories have the responsibility for providing a variety of tests that are crucial to the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. Currently, they are faced with a growing task in that the half billion tests they now perform annually will double within the next 5 years under the stress of an increasing demand for health services. This is a critical problem whose solution lies in the automation of these laboratories since technical help is in short supply and would be too costly to employ in the amounts needed even if they were available. This paper deals with some of the social, medical, and technical considerations surrounding the automation of these laboratories, and research and development activities of significance. It is imperative that engineers join with clinical scientists in these efforts, as their contributions in the area of basic and applied research and in the development of the instruments, devices, and systems required for total automation of the clinical laboratory are particularly important."
"This article will deal with the role of the large medical testing laboratory, and its increasing importance to the medical community. It will illustrate the necessary interrelationship of technological advances in instrumentation, transportation, and communication. The role of the computer with supporting electronic and electrical systems in handling a large volume of clinical test data will be outlined. From a scientific and economic standpoint, it will demonstrate the merits of volume testing in the areas of quality control, speed, and cost per test. Good business practices and the importance of continuing research, continuing education, continuing growth as adjuncts of the large clinical testing laboratory will be noted. It will show the ability of the large medical testing laboratory, with private capitalization, vision and sound management to keep pace with the demands of physicians for test data for patient diagnosis, evaluation and treatment, today and in the future."
"Evaluation of disturbances in lung function requires a variety of physiological measurements. Absolute values for such determinations are meaningless because the significance of the measured quantities varies with the age, sex, and body size of the subject. At present the norm which is compared with the measured value must be derived from tables or in some instances must be individually calculated. A computer program has been developed which evaluates the measured values of lung function by comparing them with accepted norms. The computer program is written in the BASIC programming language and minimal involvement by laboratory personnel is required. Stored in the computer program are matrices containing the regression coefficients used for the computation of the predicted values for each of the pulmonary function tests based upon the patient's sex, height, age, and weight. When the measured value falls outside of the 95 percent confidence limits, the measured value is flagged on a computer printout, immediately denoting those values which are abnormal. In approximately 5 minutes after the input of data, the printout evaluation is available for addition to the patient's record."
"A promising strategy for providing a hospital information system is the gradual development and subsequent integration of well-defined information processing modules. A computer system which is suitable and economical to serve one or more of these modules has been developed. Its unique feature is that it uses an interpretive language for all the application programs both in the developmental and service modes of operation. The interpretive language, which has been designed specifically for data management applications, facilitates the creation and debugging of programs; in addition, it allows the time-sharing of a relatively small computer with a negligible overhead for switching control from one program to the next. The multiterminal, real-time remote-access computer system has been in service operation at the Clinical Chemistry Laboratory of the Massachusetts General Hospital since the early Fall of 1968. Presently, the system accepts typed-in requisition information, creates patient files, and generates schedules for centrifuging blood samples and for the performing of all tests; the system also accepts test results and provides reports on individual patients. In the near future all test results will be manually entered into the machine, which will then generate cumulative test reports each day. The on-line connection of automated laboratory equipment (AutoAnalyzers) will soon follow. Analysis of the system performance shows that the use of an interpretive language is suitable for this application, and it also indicates that the system has sufficient capacity for serving additional information processing needs."
"Instrumentation measuring multiple optical properties of individual cells at very rapid rates can be used to differentially classify some biological cells. It may be feasible to apply these instruments in automating clinical laboratory procedures involving examinations of cellular specimens. Depending upon the type of examination desired, instruments could be used to identify normal specimens, to mark or separate any abnormal cells in a specimen, to differentially count predetermined cell types, and possibly to provide new ways of characterizing or classifying cells. The requirements, physical limitations, advantages, and disadvantages of various techniques are discussed. An instrument devised by us to measure multiple spectrophotometric properties of cells flowing in liquid suspension at rapid rates is described, and examples are shown of how the data obtained may be analysed and displayed by an on-line computer."
"The biomedical sciences characteristically deal with huge masses of data, much of which is in the form of pictures. In this paper illustrations are described of work already accomplished by the author in the pattern recognition of biomedical pictures. The FIDAC device, an on-line, real-time, high-speed, high-resolution flying-spot computer-input device, is utilized for putting the picture into the computer's memory. Then the computer analysis proceeds by means of two programming systems: the FIDACSYS system for basic picture handling and object recognition; and the BUGSYS language used to facilitate picture analysis and measurement. In the analysis of white blood cells, the computer has been used to distinguish monocytes by means of the shape of their nuclei, as characterized in terms of significant concavities and convexities. Automatic determination of mitotic index is facilitated by having the computer count the relative number of concavities on the boundary of each nucleus on a slide of mitotic cells. Quantitative measurement of bone mineral is accomplished by utilizing the FIDAC-computer system as a selective densitometer. Automatic chromosome analysis and karyotyping is performed by means of syntax-directed boundary analysis to identify the arm ends and centromere of each chromosome, from which measurements are made for typing and normality determination. And in neuron analysis, the computer has been used to identify the cell body and locate the junction, branching points, and termini of each dendrite."
"This article describes the design and implementation of the first whole blood inventory control system of its kind in the United States. In 1964, responding to an expressed need by a medium-sized blood bank, a data collection, conversion, transmission, and processing system was developed and successfully implemented in a California two-county area. The system since has been expanded to cover a population of 10 million in five states. The system, on a daily basis, was to provide blood bank management with data and analyses to facilitate best allocation of the available processed blood supplies and to forecast needs. System development required work in data collection, conversion, transmission, and computer data processing. Meaningful reports were the result. For economical development of usable data, each area had to operate with stringent reliability and cost limitations. Development time spans and reliability requirements indicated the use of off-the-shelf equipment. Performance data collected over a four-year period showed conclusively that effective controls could be placed on indiscriminate stocking policies and resultant loss of blood through outdating."
"A large segment of the medical community views the invasion of technology into medical practice with concern, if not alarm. The current trends should receive warmer welcome since they now show real promise of being able to spare the valuable time of physicians from certain types of routine activity which do not require the extensive training of health professionals. If new diagnostic tools in the hands of well-trained technicians can provide consistently reliable data, displayed to physicians with greater clarity and less redundancy, then all participants in the health care delivery system must benefit, including the patient. The ultimate success of current efforts to provide new forms of medical instrumentation will depend in large measure on supplementing the physicians' own senses without interfering with his decision making process. The new technology should not affect the essential doctor-patient relationship, but should free physicians' time to be devoted to those aspects of medical practice for which his long training and experience is expressly intended. Comprehensive biomedical engineering programs composed of engineers and life scientists working collaboratively on problems of mutual interest provide an important potential source of the new techniques and technologies so vitally needed to improve the quality of medical care at minimal cost."
"A holographic system-involving a single acoustic transmitter and a linear array of acoustic receivers is proposed for exploring the ocean floor. A single sweep of the system along a straight-line path over the area to be searched will produce a hologram for reconstructing an image of the objects and the features of the area."
"Microstrip IMPATT oscillators have been built at X-band and V-band in order to obtain hybrid integrated power sources for locked amplifier applications. It is shown that using a microstrip circuit shorter than a half-wavelength gives the highest locking figure of merit and therefore the largest possible locking range for a given gain. A figure of merit of 0.10 has been obtained for a locking gain of 20 dB."
"A strict relationship is shown to hold between the Nth-order Runge-Kutta and the Nth-power-retained matrix exponential (Liou's method) for obtaining the transient response of time-invariant linear systems. Previous results are used to obtain statements of propagated integration error for any order Runge-Kutta when applied to such systems."
"Experimental results are reported on the operation of 50 GHz silicon avalanche diodes in the anomalous mode at the Kuband."
"This letter contains a generalization of some recently published RC active all-pass networks using a differential-input operational amplifier and presents a synthesis procedure for all-pass transfer functions of any arbitrary order, having poles confined to the negative real axis. Examples are given to illustrate the synthesis procedure."
"Operation of a Q-switched CO2laser on the P and R branches of the 00°1 to 10°0 vibrational transition and on the P and R branches of the 00°1 to 02°0 vibrational transition individually has been achieved using selective absorption in gases. The advantage of this technique over other means of wavelength selection is that the resonator Q is not reduced at the oscillating wavelength."
"It is formally shown here that the optimal control for stochastic linear systems with quadratic criterion has the same form as the optimal control for the system obtained by replacing the random variables in the original system by their expected values conditioned on the measurements (certainty equivalence). It is also demonstrated that the separation theorem known for systems (with quadratic criterion) described by ordinary linear differential equations is valid if the system contains delayed state variables."
"Frequency doubling was achieved by the approximately parabolic characteristic of the tunnel-diode voltage-current characteristic. This circuit compensates for distortion and stabilizes bias voltage drift effects. The tested circuit accommodates the frequency range of 10 Hz to 500 kHz and operates in the temperature range of -30°C to +100°C."
"Measurements have been made of neutron irradiation effects on the trapped plasma avalanche triggered transit (TRAPATT) microwave device. Results show-that for levels up to 1015neutrons/cm2(energy > 10 keV) there is little change in the diode RF parameters. The observed degradation above this level is described."
"A numerical technique is described for solving the problem of electromagnetic scattering from perfectly conducting bodies. The approach is illustrated by considering the two-dimensional problem of TM scattering from perfect electric conducting cylinders. The problem is formulated as a matrix equation involving the Fourier coefficients of the far-field pattern as unknowns, and an analytic continuation procedure is used to extend the far-field representation into the near field in order to apply boundary conditions. The calculated far-field pattern for plane wave scattering from a square cylinder is given as an example."
"The epitaxial growth of single-crystal GaAs on an insulating sapphire substrate, recently reported, has been used in the fabrication of Schottky barrier field-effect transistors."
"The Stokes-parameter transformation operator for a randomly oriented dipole radar target is derived. Using the operator, the polarization of the backscattered wave is determined for incident waves that are linearly and circularly polarized. The results give an insight into the way target radar cross section depends on antenna polarization."
"The state-variable technique is a powerful tool in the synthesis of active circuits. This letter describes the theory and practical schemes for realization of voltage-controlled active notch networks using this technique."
"Approximate results are given for the transfer function of some networks containing periodically operated switches as a function of both complex frequency and switch duty cycle on the hypothesis that the frequency components of the signals are negligible at the switching frequency. Design criteria for such networks are also given, and experimental results concerning passive and active RC networks are presented."
"A method for direct numerical evaluation of the cumulative probability distribution function from the characteristic function in terms of a single integral is presented. No moment evaluation or series expansions are required. Intermediate evaluation of the probability density function is circumvented. The method takes on a special form when the random variables are discrete."
"The red electroluminescence in gallium phosphide at the maximum quantum efficiency is a constant, independent of injection efficiency, for a series of liquid-phase epitaxially grown diodes which have common Zn- and O-doped p-type substrates and variable Te-doped n-type layers. This behavior and the subsequent decrease in quantum efficiency with increasing diode current are both explained in terms of the saturation of Zn-O complexes by captured electrons in the p region."
"The size dependence of the conductivity observed in vacuum condensed copper films 200-1500 Å thick was interpreted by applying the Sondheimer theory on the assumption that the scattering of the carriers by the film boundaries is partially elastic. The fraction of electrons specularly reflected at the surfaces was determined by a method based on the anomalous skin effect."
"Near threshold, an envelope detector suffers losses in both amplitude and phase. The classic threshold analysis computes only the amplitude loss. Here the phase loss is computed and shown to be larger than the amplitude loss. This places additional limitations on an envelope detector when used with coherent signals."
"A parametric amplifier with an MIS varactor exhibits gain saturation for high pump voltage. Two MIS varactors connected antiparallel have an even C-V characteristic. The differential capacitance varies with twice the pump frequency, and the gain has a flat maximum at a certain pump voltage."
"A mode diagram for a third-order linear differential equation with a periodic coefficient is presented. This is compared with the mode diagram for the well-known second-order Hill-Meissner equation, and a conjecture regarding the conditions which lead to instability in higher order systems is made."
"Voltage reference circuits may have bistable characteristics when positive feedback is used to improve their regulation against supply voltage changes. A single FET can inhibit the undesired state with no significant impairment of the regulation. A particular example is described to show that a wide range of parameters is permissible for the FET."
"A method is suggested for the evaluation of the transition matrix associated with a linear time-invariant multivariable system and it is shown that this method is faster and more accurate than other numerical methods."
"A supersensitive television camera tube has been developed which incorporates a silicon target having arrays of many planar diodes. The bombardment of image electrons on the target results in an electron amplification about 102to 104, as well as electron charge storage."
"A self-scanning optical sensor array that is based on the use of elastic surface waves is described. In the device, a photoconducting material is adjacent to an array of surface wave transducers on a piezoelectric slab. Initial tests have successfully demonstrated the principle of operation."
"Image formation from sampled wavefronts is shown to be a special case of Monte Carlo integral evaluation. Simulation of the sampling-degraded image by a spatial filtering technique demonstrates the great superiority of Monte Carlo importance sampling to the usual uniformly spaced sampling."
"It was recently shown that companion matrices possess a recursive property which allows their function to be computed efficiently and accurately. In this letter, an additional recursive property of companion matrices is derived. These two properties are then combined to suggest a substantially improved algorithm for the evaluation of functions of companion matrices. It is also indicated that by using this algorithm, the complex arithmetic operations stemming from the presence of complex eigenvalues in real matrices are reduced to a bare minimum."
"Preliminary results of a parametric study of a He-Ne-Cdll laser are reported. Three modes of operation for an optimum pressure fill have been found: pure 6328 Å (Nel) operation, pure 4416 Å (CdII) operation, or simultaneous 6328 Å and 4416 Å operation at milliwatt power levels. Different ratios of red to blue can be obtained by variation of operating current and/or temperature."
"Fabrication and measurement of an experimental GaAs FET are described. Evaporated Au-Ge-Ni contacts and nickel Schottky barrier were used. Scattering parameters were measured to 1 GHz and utilized for circuit design."
"Based on the basic property that the solution weight vector of the linear pattern classifier can be expressed as a linear function of the training patterns, it is shown that the increment error correction algorithm is a special case of the potential function method. For linearly separable training patterns, a form of potential function which appears to be useful is also proposed."
"A platinum silicon Schottky barrier avalanche transit time diode giving a CW output power of 526 mW with 5.75 percent efficiency at 7.2 GHz is described."
"Conventional methods of generating sequences of pseudorandom numbers usually require relatively extensive initialization to alter the distribution parameters. The algorithm presented here economically generates a sequence of Poisson pseudorandom integers for which the mean may be arbitrarily varied from one number to the next."
"The effect of limiting on the spectrum of Gaussian noise is computed where the noise has a Gaussian spectrum before limiting, and the output spectral density is plotted for various noise-to-limit level ratios. A decibel scale displays the spectral spreading due to limiting with an accuracy not available in previously published data. The results have application to radar and sonar signal processors which attempt to detect targets in clutter."
"A simple synthesis procedure is given for a class of three-terminal RC networks which consist of the parallel connection of a number of T sections and one π section. The network structure and the element values follow directly from the partial fraction expansion of a prescribed short-circuit admittance matrix."
"Depending upon the amplitude of a CW signal injected into a pulsed avalanche oscillator, two distinct types of locking, defined as phase locking and frequency locking, have been observed. Data are presented for the conditions under which each type of locking takes place. In systems applications, the phase locking of a pulsed oscillator has resulted in improved system performance over that obtained from a free-running oscillator."
"A simple circuit, using a grounded inverting operational amplifier, is described for realizing an adjustable phase shift from -π to +π of an incoming signal without a change in amplitude with respect to phase. This circuit is seen as an alternative to that of Genin."
"A new type of free space impulse scattering range is described. The range needs no ground plane; it uses readily fabricated antennas and a 1 kV impulse generator. Experimental results are shown for impulse reflections from a disk."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper reviews progress on tunable optical parametric oscillators. Topics considered include: parametric amplification of Gaussian beams: threshold; tuning techniques, spectral output, and stability; saturation and power output; spontaneous parametric emission; nonlinear materials; and far infrared generation."
"The properties of common transversal filters are well known. Transversal filters with continuously tapped delay lines have the advantage that they do not show a periodic continuation of the frequency characteristic. Therefore it is not necessary to use an additional filter for suppressing higher frequency components. After an introduction to CTT filter theory the realization of transversal filters with continuous inductive tapping (ICTT filters) is discussed. The description of the practical synthesis of a low-pass filter and a 90° wide-band phase shifter is followed by the interpretation of measured frequency characteristics."
"A powerful but simple matrix method for the digital computer manipulation of large sets of differential and algebraic equations is introduced to the field of power systems. The method is first illustrated with reference to the linearized equations representing a general-purpose turboalternator model. Subsequently, the form of the system equations obtained as a result of the matrix method is seen to provide a unified approach to the determination of system stability limits using Routh, Nyquist, or eigenvalue methods. The normal state space form of the system equations is also shown to facilitate control studies. A previously suggested performance criterion for an excitation system is generalized, and a systematic method for the simultaneous optimization of governor and exciter control loops is suggested. This method of optimization does not require the evaluation of system transient responses. The manner in which the normal state space form of the system equations leads naturally to the synthesis of controllers which are optimal with respect to a chosen scalar quadratic performance index is indicated. With this form of control, the structure is not defined a priori but emerges from the computational algorithm and it becomes unnecessary to specify the source or the magnitude of the stabilizing signals required to provide an improved dynamic performance. Finally, the matrix method is shown to be effective for the manipulation of the nonlinear machine equations and these are obtained in a new form which is directly amenable to digital or analog computer solution."
"This paper establishes analog computer simulations of the widely used three-phase full-wave controlled rectifier bridge. It is shown that when the individual currents in the legs of the rectifier bridge are not developed directly in the simulation, it is possible to avoid the instability and drift problems which have plagued previous investigators. Furthermore, by proper attention to the periodic nature of the operation of the rectifier bridge, the number of computer components may be considerably reduced. In particular, only two electronic switches need be used if the operating range of the delay angle is small. The unique features of the modern high-speed repetitive-operation type of analog computer are utilized throughout the analysis. Computation time is typically reduced by a factor of 300 when compared with existing digital computer routines. The accuracy of the simulation is illustrated by comparing the computer output to recordings taken from an actual system. Good correlation is demonstrated for both transient and steady-state operation."
"The theory of special relativity predicts a transverse Doppler effect of a laser beam retro-reflected from an artificial satellite. In such a two-way system the transverse Doppler effect is found to be four times as large as the same effect in a one-way system."
"A hybrid electronic-optical signal-processing system which can be applied to the recording and the reconstruction of one-and two-dimensional images of a radio-brightness distribution is described."
"A new Ge-Te heterojunction device is described. Its small-signal-level resistance under IR excitation can be smaller than its dark resistance by a factor of at least 1000 at 77 K."
"The coupling between low- and high-frequency resonances of a plasma capacitor is discussed. A low-frequency ion oscillation is found to cause the zero-order density profile to vary at ωi. This variation of the density profile causes the third-harmonic output of the capacitor to be frequency modulated."
"The temporal response of a single-stage image intensifier is characterized by the phosphor persistence, while that of a multistage unit is the convolution of the responses of the individual stages. This results in a greatly increased effective persistence, and a propagation delay of up to several milliseconds in commonly used three-stage image intensifiers."
"Experimental measurements of the duration of the sampling function in the dynamic crossed-field photomultiplier are described. The results presented show that this device can operate with sampling in intervals ranging from 70 percent to less than 10 percent of the period of the RF field driving the device."
"A method of measuring the power injected into a network is described. Either input current or voltage which are both complex waveforms, must be electrically integrable and phase-locked to the other. The method is particularly applicable to cases where one of the variables is sinusoidal."
"A simple method for producing ungrounded inductors using a gyrator is described. Floating inductors may be obtained from either grounded or ungrounded capacitors. The technique has an advantage in the low number of amplifiers required."
"A laser beam is shot on the surface of single-crystal germanium, after etching. From the reflection pattern, the characteristics of etched pits and hillocks are examined and it is found that etched pits not only are simple holes but also are convex. In addition, a new reflection pattern in the orientation of [110] is reported. These new data will be applied to decide the orientation of single-crystal growth and the effect of dislocation in crystal."
"An aperture dissection scheme is proposed here to shorten the transit time of Bragg angle acoustooptical scanning systems. This scheme can, in principle, reduce the transit time by a desirable factor without degrading the resolution."
"The commonly used definition of cutoff frequency fTof bipola transistors is predicated on the existence of a frequency domain in which the magnitude of the current gain β varies inversely with frequency. In the absence of such a domain, the definition is vague. The definition 1/fT= d/df[lm (1/β)] for f →0 is proposed."
"Some useful structures are derived for the scalar-valued matrix product x'Qy when substitutions x=Az and y=Bw are made. The value of such transformations is exemplified with a formulation for probabilistic parameter inaccuracy effects."
"The diffusion flow matrix and the impedance of the diffusion flow are introduced to solve for the diffusion flow of particles. This matrix method is similar to that used in transmission line analysis, and the results may be obtained easily with a well-known calculation."
"All previously reported laser Doppler velocity measuring devices employ either the local oscillator-heterodyne type of coherent detection or a two-beam differential Doppler technique. A third method employing a passive interferometer is proposed and shown to have significant advantages."
"Using Gabor's two-step imaging process, a hologram has been constructed with microwave radiation at 16 GHz, and image reconstruction has been accomplished at optical wavelengths using a 6328 Å laser source. For this hologram a phased receiving array sampled the scattered field in the vertical direction, while the object rotation resulted in the generation of a synthetic array in the horizontal direction."
"The modification of an evaporated contact GaAs Gunn diode is reported in which geometry control is used to achieve improved terminal characteristics. The devices operate in a CW mode at a reduced terminal voltage and have excellent trigger response."
"Denote the current vector, the voltage vector, and the power dissipated in a resistive reciprocal passive lumped, or distributed, n-port by {i, e, P}, respectively. Consider the two actual, and one hypothetical, regimes {i1, e1, P1}, {i2, e2, P2}, and {i1, e2, P}. It is shown that P ≤ √P1P2."
"It is shown that the topological formulas for active two-port networks can be modified to appear in a form similar to those for passive two-port networks without mutual inductances."
"It has been shown that internal current gain may be obtained by the application of microwave bias to intrinsic photoconductors. This letter presents experimental evidence of the same effect in an extrinsic photoconductor, gallium-doped silicon."
"A method is presented for examining the distribution of the multiplication process over the active area of shallow junction avalanche diodes using a scanning electron microscope. The multiplication factor is measured as a function of both diode voltage and electron beam energy, and the results are compared with those obtained by more conventional techniques."
"This letter describes a method for analyzing a class of boundary value problems involving cascaded discontinuities in a waveguide. It is shown that problems involving a pair of junctions can be conveniently formulated in terms of a special type of infinite set of equations which can be attacked by an extension of the modified residue calculus method, previously developed in connection with single discontinuity problems. The principal advantage of this approach is its numerical efficiency."
"It is emphasized that in order to specify a single crystal plate as a piezoelectric resonator, one necessary and sufficient specification is to refer the orientation and shape of the plate to the major and the minor rhombohedral faces."
"Using refracted light, a simple line diagram can be converted to a ground plane printed circuit board with insulated barriers etched around each conductor. The insulator width is controlled by selection and manipulation of a light refractor."
"Dispersion diagrams are given for the parametric coupling between the space-time harmonics of an electromagnetic wave propagating in an infinite dielectric medium whose dielectric constant is modulated by a high-intensity pump wave containing two harmonics. The effect of the amplitude and the phase of the second harmonic of the pump wave on the parametric growth process is studied. Both stable and temporally unstable interactions are considered."
"A new active RC bandpass filter containing two resistors, two capacitors, and two voltage amplifiers is presented. The Q sensitivities of the filter with respect to the passive elements can be made zero, and the Q sensitivities with respect to the gains of the amplifiersare less than one half."
"A new technique in analog-to-digital conversion is discussed which converts an analog signal to a digital representation by means of spectrum shifting. The technique has digital characterization advantages in both storage and communication of analog waveforms."
"Anomalous behavior of low-frequency noise is found in pinched-off n-channel silicon MOS transistors. A qualitative explanation is given."
"A general algorithm for solving coupled first-order systems of differential equations to any desired level of accuracy is derived and several applications are noted."
"It appears feasible for satellite relay systems to provide polarization discrimination of 20 to 30 dB (or more with adaptive antennas) in the antenna main beam. Thus if the systems are designed to operate with smaller wanted to unwanted signal ratios than those provided by polarization discrimination, it should be possible to double the effective spectrum available by using it independently on two orthogonal polarizations."
"Voltage-reference devices such as the Zener diodes require a constant current for maximum stability. Circuits that minimize the input-output differential for which constant device current may be obtained are described."
"A modified emitter transition layer capacitance representation is given which is free of singularities and allows modeling of the capacitance for voltages up to the \"built-in\" voltage."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A study has been made of high-current density Brillouin-focused electron beams formed with magnetic compression. Analysis of the problem was by numerical calculation of electron trajectories using a digital computer. Electrostatic field data were measured using a resistance network analog. The effect of the magnetic field was calculated as an equivalent potential. An experimental system based on the results of the analysis was designed and tested. A Müller-type electron gun was found to provide a more uniform current density than a corresponding Pierce type. Experimental results were in close agreement with design objectives. For an area magnetic compression of 10 to 1, a focused beam approaching ideal Brillouin flow was achieved."
"A fast-acting broad-band plasma waveguide switch has been developed which provides greater than 60-dB isolation and less than 0.25-dB cold loss over the 26-to 40-GHz frequency range. Switching times are under 200 ns, and the actuating trigger signal is a 150-volt 0.5-µs pulse from a high-impedance source. Geometrical enhancement of plasma density by employing metallic convergence cones is used. This technique provides a moderately ionized plasma from a beam whose strength would normally provide only a weakly ionized plasma in the absence of the convergence cone. A computer program of the transmission equation using a plasma slab model yielded the average plasma density and slab thickness in the waveguide; electric probes were used to detect electron temperatures along the cone axis."
"Microwave harmonic generation in a plasma capacitor is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. Deficiencies of previous harmonic generation theories are pointed out and a nonlinear one-dimensional mathematical model, which includes the reactive nonlinearities due to the spatial variation of E, is developed. This nonlinear plasma capacitor model indicates that under certain electron-density and capacitor-plate spacing conditions strong harmonic resonances and an antiresonance are present. The antiresonance occurs when nω= ωpand the resonances occur when nω≳ ωp, where ωp=plasma frequency, ω= the fundamental frequency, and n is the harmonic number. Harmonic generation in a number of gases is investigated experimentally in a coaxial discharge structure. Third-harmonic (9-GHz) efficiencies of up to 13 percent, and third-harmonic output power in excess of 600 mW are reported. Double-probe and microwave-scattering measurements show that enhanced harmonic generation occurs at the above resonances and, hence, substantiate the non-linear plasma capacitor theory. In order to explain the harmonic output power variations that occur with pressure variation and gas type, a graphical method of analysis based on experimental fact and pressure-collision frequency-electron energy curves is presented. This method of analysis not only yields results that compare qualitatively with experimental observations, but it may also possibly be used to design and predict the performance of future plasma frequency multipliers."
"Electrostatic latent image development (ELID) is a method of amplifying storage tube information in which electronic charge patterns stored upon a target may be enhanced by secondary emission upon the incidence of a flood beam. Experimental evidence is given for this effect, using the WX-4384 electrostatic slow scan vidicon and the WX-5074 Optechon storage camera tube, showing measured gains greater than 16 times. There has been demonstrated gain which brought a signal, originally completely obscured by target disturbance, up to a level that is easily discernible. There is a definite increase in signal-to-noise ratio. The analytical expression derived for the gain as a function of electron charge incident on the storage surface during the action and the voltage of the first crossover indicates that large gains may be possible for small stored signals."
"A structure has been devised which converts magnetic flux density change to a change in output current. The structure is essentially a P-channel MOST with the drain diffusion split into two halves. A magnetic field normal to the silicon surface deflects device current towards one half-drain. By operating the MOST in the \"pinched-off\" mode (VDS> VGS-VT) the output impedance is made high, so that large output voltage swings may be obtained. A theoretical study of the voltage and current distributions in the MOST channel has given data on the influence of device geometry on sensitivity. Experimental results indicate a linear relationship between output current and magnetic flux density, and an unexplained nonlinear variation of output with device current. Comparison of experimental results with theory indicates a carrier Hall mobility in the channel of 116 cm2/V.s."
"A theoretical and experimental study of the effects of high-level injection of carriers into a reverse-biased collector-base junction has been performed. Two models which describe the high-current behavior of the junction space-charge region are discussed. The first deals with the formation of a current-induced base region at space-charge-limited current densities. The second model assumes that two-dimensional effects are predominant; at current densities corresponding to the onset of space-charge-limited current, lateral injection of carriers takes place. These phenomena were studied experimentally using silicon double-diffused transistor structures. The existence of space-charge-limited current in the reverse-biased collector depletion layer manifests itself in significant changes in the ac and dc parameters of the transistor. In particular, it is shown that the cutoff frequency (fT) and large-signal current gain (hFE) begin to decrease rapidly with increasing current at the onset of the space-charge limitation. A comparison of experimental results with predictions of the above theories indicates that, while both the formation of a current-induced base region and lateral injection do take place, the latter mechanism controls conventional device performance."
"A new fabrication technique for passivated silicon Schottky barrier diodes is described. It is shown that the p-n junction guard ring or \"hybrid\" approach produces Schottky barriers whose forward and reverse electrical characteristics are in excellent agreement with simple theory, and that the excess noise normally found in passivated Schottky barrier diodes has been significantly reduced. The influence of metal barrier height and diffusion profile on the charge storage characteristics of these devices is discussed and examined experimentally."
"This paper presents theoretical calculations of the large-signal admittance and efficiency achievable in a silicon p-n-v-ns Read IMPATT diode. A simplified theory is employed to obtain a starting design. This design is then modified to achieve higher efficiency operation as specific device limitations are reached in large-signal (computer) operation. Self-consistent numerical solutions are obtained for equations describing carrier transport, carrier generation, and space-charge balance. The solutions describe the evolution in time of the diode and its associated resonant circuit. Detailed solutions are presented of the hole and electron concentrations, electric field, and terminal current and voltage at various points in time during a cycle of oscillation. Large-signal values of the diode's negative conductance, susceptance, average voltage, and power-generating efficiency are presented as a function of oscillation amplitude for a fixed average current density. For the structure studied, the largest microwave power-generating efficiency (18 percent at 9.6 GHz) has been obtained at a current density of 200 A/cm2, but efficiencies near 10 percent were obtained over a range of current density from 100 to 1000 A/cm2."
"A large-signal model of the Read-type IMPATT diode has been used to analyze the frequency-mixing properties of the oscillating diode. The self-oscillating, two-port frequency converter is described in terms of its short-circuit admittance parameters. It is shown that in the proper circuit, parametric frequency conversion may result in a negative conductance at the input and output ports of the converter. Therefore, high-gain frequency conversion and parametric amplification are possible. Under some conditions, spurious oscillations may occur due to this negative conductance. Experimental circuits have been built which demonstrate conversion gain and parametric amplification and confirm qualitatively the theoretical results. It is also shown experimentally that some of the sideband noise of the IMPATT oscillator is due to low-frequency noise which is up converted from the bias circuit. Some of this noise can be eliminated by proper circuit design."
"Strong coupling can be obtained between slow space-charge waves in thin biased semiconductors and long-wavelength microwave fields, if the semiconductor is overlaid with an insulated periodic mosaic of tiny metal stripes. Microscopic field perturbations are represented by a set of slow space-harmonic waves traveling in opposite directions, with a standing-wave interference pattern which matches the periodicity of the mosaic. When the carrier drift velocity is approximately synchronized with one of the space-harmonic waves, interaction is enhanced, space-charge waves may be induced, negative-resistance effects may appear, and power may be coupled from the semiconductor into external microwave networks. Theory indicates that the principle can be used to obtain microwave amplification or oscillation in thin biased layers of normal semiconductors such as silicon or germanium. It may also be possible to couple efficiently in this way to traveling Gunn-effect domains in extensive thin layers of gallium arsenide."
"The method of obtaining the velocity field relation from theI(V)characteristics of p+-n-π-p+structures is analyzed using detailed numerical techniques and semiquantitative analytic descriptions. Rodriguez, Ruegg, and Nicolet (RRN) [1] have concluded from differential resistance measurements above punch-through that the hole velocity was saturated and gave 7.5 × 106cm/s for 0.4 × 105<E<1.1 × 105V/cm. The differential resistance above punch-through is composed of l) the space-charge resistance component considered by RRN, and 2) a term which has its origin in the spillover of holes into the depleted region of the p+-n junction, but which is enhanced in proportion to the length of the π region. A detailed analysis of the spillover shows that as the current is increased, the built-in field of the p+-n junction is markedly reduced by neutralization of the depleted space charge. This effect, which leads to typically 25 percent of the total differential resistance, is an important factor in the determination of the hole velocity. In independent experiments of p+-p-p+structures, the authors have found that the velocity increases by ∼ 30 percent (to an accuracy of ± 5 percent) over the range of fields in the RRN experiment. It is shown for the p+-n-π-p+structure that the J(V) curve is rather insensitive to the υ(E) relation, and that a nonsaturated velocity also fits the RRN experimental results. An additional correction to the space-charge resistance itself comes from the effect of a nonsaturated velocity."
"The fabrication and properties of an n-GaAs emitter, p-Ge base, n-Ge collector transistor which possesses significant current gain is described, These GaAs wide band gap emitter transistors have shown incremental current gains near 15 when operated at current densities up to 3500 A/cm2. The doping level used in the base region was quite high (up to 5×1019/cm3in order to avoid a spurious Ge p-n junction in this region. The epitaxial deposition of the GaAs emitter region was carried out at a low temperature in order to also avoid a hidden p-n Ge junction. The low deposition temperature resulted in low (about 5×1015/cm3emitter doping levels. The general nature of the GaAs-Ge heterojunction energy-band diagram permits this high doping in the base or Ge region relative to the GaAs emitter region without reducing the current gain below unity. The observation of gain in this n-p-n heterojunction structure where the emitter is much more lightly doped than the base is considered to be confirmation of the theoretical proposals of Shockley and Kroemer."
"The output conductance of MOS transistors operating in the saturation region is studied theoretically and experimentally. A simple physical model is described which accounts for the modification of the electric field in the drain depletion region near the Si-SiO2interface, due to the presence of the gate electrode. The saturation conductance is shown on the basis of this model to be a sensitive function of the oxide thickness as well as the substrate impurity concentration. Good agreement is obtained between theory and experiment over a wide range of device parameters. The characteristics of lowly doped very-short-channel devices, which depart from this theory, are also discussed. The departure is shown to be due to a \"punch-through\"-type phenomenon."
"Diffused base bipolar transistors, especially high-voltage types, often exhibit two pronounced saturation regions. This paper elucidates the qualitative and quantitative features of this behavior which is due to conductivity modulation of the lightly doped collector region. The transport equations for ambipolar conduction in the collector region are solved with a minimum of simplifying assumptions. It is shown how this portion of the solution explains the general features of the phenomenon. A complete solution for the collectorV-Icharacteristics depends on an explicit knowledge of the recombination statistics in both the base and collector regions. A simple case is considered to demonstrate the detailed dependence of the phenomena on the physical structure. Design tradeoffs involved in the control of theV-Icharacteristics are discussed in the light of the results obtained from the analysis."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation of the factors influencing transistor current-gain temperature dependence. Phase one of the investigation demonstrated experimentally that current-gain temperature dependence is an inverse log function of the average active base resistivity. Devices were found to be less temperature sensitive with lighter base doping levels. Phase two of the investigation experimentally demonstrated current-gain temperature dependence to be an inverse exponential function of the emitter doping level. This large temperature dependence is shown to be a possible consequence of an emitter band-gap decrease, presumably caused by the large number of dislocations and lattice deformations at high doping levels. Using the predicted techniques, several runs of epitaxial planar devices were fabricated which had practically no current-gain temperature dependence, and suffered no noticeable loss in other parameters. Current-gain temperature dependence is also thought to be one of the contributors to hot-spot formation and secondary breakdown. To determine if secondary-breakdown capability had been increased, these temperature-insensitive devices were tested to forward secondary breakdown and compared to standard products of the same geometry. The temperature-independent devices were able to withstand a 40-percent increase in operating power before the onset of secondary breakdown. This increase in capability is thought to be the result of less tendency toward hot-spot formation due to decreased thermal regenerative action."
"This paper summarizes the design, fabrication, and characterization of a p-n-p planar epitaxial germanium transistor for use as an amplifier in the 1-to 4-GHz frequency range and as a high-speed switch. The analytical basis for the geometry and impurity profile arrived at in the development of this transistor is presented in conjunction with experimental measurements. It is shown that good agreement between experiment and theory can be achieved even in the 1-to 6-GHz frequency region when sufficient attention is given to the formulation of an adequate equivalent circuit. For example, the calculated fTof this germanium microwave transistor is 5.7 GHz, which compares to a typical measured value of 5.6 GHz. The measured maximum available gain of the better transistors is 13.4 dB at 1.3 GHz (the corresponding calculated value is 13.9 dB) with a 2.7-dB noise figure at the same frequency."
"The expressions for the beam-loading admittance for relativistic electron beams in gridless klystron gaps is derived. Computer results show the values to be about twice those computed with nonrelativistic formulas foru_{0}/cnear 0.4."
"A slide rule has been developed for the rapid and accurate calculation of the normalized doping parameter UFand the bulk doping of silicon substrates from high-frequency MIS-capacitorC-Vdata. The slide rule can be employed for ambient temperatures from -20 to 100°C, and for a wide range of insulator thicknesses and dielectric constants."
"A general theory for near-intrinsic homogenous semiconductor material is extended to the base region of an ideal cylindrical-geometry unijunction transistor. The theory predicts static emitter characteristics for planar geometries with cylindrical symmetry. These predicted characteristics include the effects of drift, diffusion, and simple recombination, and qualitatively agree with experimental data at high injection."
"The three-terminal Gunn device first reported by Petzinger et al. has been frequency modulated by shining light either on the n-type gallium arsenide or the p-n junction of the device. Different sensitivities are achieved in those two modes of operation. While the device was oscillating in the bias-circuit mode at about 500 MHz, frequency variations linearly dependent on the intensity of the light have been observed in both modes of operation. The maximum shifts about 2 percent of the oscillating frequency, has been measured at a light intensity of 25 mW/cm2and when light was directed only on the n-type gallium arsenide. Higher-frequency shifts have been observed in the nonlinear region. The device has demonstrated capability of detecting very short light pulses, ∼ 50 ns, generated by GaAs laser."
"Excess ICBOcurrents on silicon planar transistors can be due to surface inversion layers over either the base or collector regions of the wafer. For n-p-n transistors, a collector inversion layer would be associated with a negative charge in the protective oxide over the silicon chip. On the other hand, a base inversion would be associated with a positive oxide charge. Since gamma irradiation produces net positive charge in the oxide, a collector inversion layer would tend to be removed by such irradiation. Base inversion layers would tend to be more heavily inverted. Thus, a method for unambiguous rapid identification of the location of the inversion layer is available by use of gamma irradiation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A unijunction transistor with fast recovery time and high interbase resistance is made by growing a thin high-resistivity boron-doped epitaxial layer on a low-resistivity arsenic-doped substrate. Ring-and-dot base contacts are made directly on the p-type epitaxial layer with the beam-lead contact process. With the dot grounded and a negative bias on the ring, the most positive point along the edge of the space-charge region in the epitaxy is centered below the dot. When the substrate is adequately biased in the forward direction with respect to this point, conductivity modulation of the spreading resistance under the dot begins because of minority charge injection from the substrate. Experimental devices have been made by growing a 7.1-micron 53.1-Ω.cm epitaxial layer on a 5Ω.cm substrate. Interbase resistance was ∼ 100k Ω, intrinsic stand-off ratio ∼ 0.5, holding current ∼ 1 mA, and recovery time <20 ns. The paper concludes with possible memory array and shift register circuit applications that incorporate the unit described as well as a junction-isolated version that is free of parasitic transistors."
"By the application of an infrared radiometer as the sensor, hot-spot formation is detected and a hot-spot thermal resistance is calculated. Hot-spot formation for both forward- and reverse-biased second breakdown is analyzed. Pulsed dc techniques are used in the investigation, allowing a wide range of possible operating biases to be applied."
"A theoretical model for the generation-recombination (g-r) noise in MOS transistors is presented. This model takes into account the charge induced on all electrodes by the charge fluctuation of the impurity center in the depletion region. The model gives a finite equivalent gate noise resistance at saturation. Gold-doped and no-gold control devices were fabricated to verify the theory experimentally. The drain-voltage dependence of the g-r noise, which is shown to be distinctly different from the 1/f noise and thermal noise, is used to check the theory. Good agreement between theory and experiment is obtained."
"Magnitudes of the transport terms describing hole and electron motion in extrinsic degenerate silicon with large impurity gradients are calculated using Fermi-Dirac statistics. The absolute error between these transport terms using Boltzmann statistics and Fermi-Dirac statistics is tabulated for the reduced Fermi energy level from - 15 kT units to + 15 kT units. An accurate equilibrium state is assumed, and the effects of impurity scattering and electric field on the mobility are examined. The necessity for including impurity scattering in steady and transient states has been demonstrated. It was found necessary to maintain better than a 1:106accuracy in the Fermi-Dirac integrals in order to obtain a highly accurate equilibrium state."
"A new utilization of the basic semiconductor heterojunction is proposed which is based on the mechanism of a field-independent polarization discontinuity P at the interface of a p-n heterojunction. Variations in P yield changes in the space-charge regions and the associated barrier voltages at the interface. By proper choice of the heterojunction parameters, the barrier voltage change can be made approximately linear with P over a finite range. The barrier voltage variation modulates the I-V characteristic of the heterojunction for the case of a positive reverse interface barrier, and modifies the C-V relation in all cases. Typical values are calculated for the properties of the general polarization discontinuity heterojunction, and of a strain-sensitive unit which utilizes a piezo-electric interaction. For the latter, the calculated differential sensitivities are 102to 103and 104to 105volts per unit strain for the barrier voltage and device output voltage, respectively. This output voltage sensitivity is 1 to 2 orders of magnitude larger than that available in piezoresistive strain gages. This device concept has potential in a variety of technically important areas ranging from mechanical instrumentation to sequentially excited light-emitting arrays. The heterojunction configuration is compatible with both evaporated and epitaxial semiconductor technology, and materials with the necessary combination of physical properties are represented among the well-known II-VI and III-V compounds."
"A theoretical and experimental study of low-frequency oscillations in the bias circuit of short (nominally 12 µ) Gunn devices is presented. Sinusoidal oscillations and relaxation oscillations including damped sinusoids and exponentially decaying pulses have been observed. The frequency, pulse width, and repetition rate are adjustable with bias voltage, bias circuit impedance, and the impedance of the microwave circuit. This behavior, as well as the conditions for stable bias, is explained in terms of an average terminal i-v characteristic for those devices which exhibit a terminal current drop. The oscillation amplitude is determined by the shape of this i-v curve. Pulses have been observed with subnanosecond rise times, peak voltages of 35 volts and adjustable pulse widths ranging from 3 to 200 ns for typical driver pulse widths of 100 to 500 ns. The sinusoidal frequencies were adjustable in the range of 300 to 550 MHz. The microwave output was in X-band and was self modulated by the bias circuit oscillations. The measured waveforms agree well with theory."
"An analytic theory of the LSA diode oscillator is developed. Closed expressions for the output power efficiency, conductance, etc., are given. The physics of the diode operation is discussed and limiting values of the doping-to-frequency ratio are obtained. Doping inhomogeneity giving rise to the growth of Gunn domains is shown to seriously affect the LSA operation. The formulas are presented in a form which is directly based on material and circuit parameters. The results are found to be in good agreement with experimental data."
"A dielectric container made of chemical-vapor-deposited (CVD) isotropic boron-nitride (BN) is substituted for the commonly used quartz envelope in a high-power duplexing device. Significant improvements in duplexer performance can be achieved through the use of this material owing to its many favorable characteristics."
"The interaction between a density modulated electron beam and an ungridded RF gap is studied theoretically, using numerical methods and a digital computer. The efficiency of conversion and the optimum load conductance are calculated as a function of the normalized gap dimensions γa and γd. It is found that with commonly used gap dimensions, γa = γd = 1 radian, the efficiency is on the average 20 percentage points below the value of I1/2I0for the incident beam. To achieve higher efficiencies, γa and γd should be reduced to a value in the vicinity of 0.5. The resulting efficiency improvement is approximately 10 percentage points."
"A continuity equation for the occupation factor of the energy states is proposed and used to demonstrate the existence of a negative diffusion capacitance in tunnel diodes."
"The spatial variation of the quasi-Fermi potentials in asymmetrical step p+-n junctions under reverse bias conditions is analyzed following an approximate procedure already described in the literature for the symmetrical junctions. The results obtained in this analysis are used to check the validity of the quasi-equilibrium approximation in capacitance calculations."
"Slow instability of current gain or the base current in silicon n-p-n planar transistors under large-current life tests in elevated temperatures is discussed. The instability is caused by the ion migration in the oxide bulk covering the intersection of emitter junction. Some results of experimental approach to make transistors insensitive to such a failure mode is also given."
"The theoretical and practical aspects of generating synchronized microwave harmonic energy using a dc step source feeding a modified pulse forming network are presented. The results indicate that although the suggested technique introduces some degradation in the build-up time of the output wave packet, it remains economical for generating, at least, third-harmonic energy."
"To produce charged aerosols for electrofluid dynamic processes, various liquids were sprayed through a metal capillary at very high electric field strengths into high pressure air flows. The current produced as the charged liquid spray ruptures is a function of electrical, gas, and liquid properties. Of these parameters the effects of liquid properties, such as surface tension, electrical conductivity, mass flow rate, and air properties such as pressure and velocity on the current production are experimentally investigated. A semi-empirical relation of the current output with the indicated variables is obtained using dimensional analysis."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The effective use of coherent optical radiation in communications requires low-power wide-bandwidth modulators. The most promising modulator materials are those with refractive indices sensitive to electric field. Certain of these materials are also useful in nonlinear optical applications such as optical frequency doublers and optical parametric oscillators. The search for efficient modulator, frequency doubler, and parametric oscillator materials has led to the preparation of a large number of single crystals in the class of oxygen octahedra ferroelectrics. This class includes, for example, lithium niobate (LiNbO3), barium sodium niobate (Ba2Na(NbO3)5), and barium titanate (BaTiO3). Crystal growth and optical studies have led to nearly optimum electrooptical and nonlinear optical materials within this class. The growth and proprety control methods that have been used are closely related in many instances to those used in the preparation of single crystal semiconductors. While materials with optimum properties have been found, the requirement for high optical quality crystals that do not optically damage when irradiated with a laser have led to additional material requirements that can be met but about which much remains to be understood."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The transport of noise fluctuations in convergent flow or so-called Kino-type crossed-field electron guns is investigated in terms of a two-dimensional computer simulation of the gun by the well-known Monte Carlo method for studying stochastic processes. The exact electrode configurations are simulated in the computer memory. After sufficient time has elapsed for the electron flow to achieve a steady-state condition 2000 additional time intervals are computed and then a statistical analysis is made of the fluctuation quantities. Six emission spots are considered on a finite-width cathode. The analysis is facilitated by the development of a rapid method for the solution of Poisson's equation (two-dimensional). Of particular interest in the results is the improved laminarity of the flow in the KG-M gun and the fact that there is significant space-charge smoothing throughout the gun region in both Kino-type guns. Of greater significance and as yet not explainable is the fact that Ψ versus ωct has local peaks when the space-charge density, which is spatially varying, passes through the Brillouin value (ω_{p}-ω_{c}for this condition). This knowledge could be profitably used in deciding on the location of the gun exit plane. The fact that the laminarity of the flow is sensitive to slight changes in the electric field near the cathode indicates that an absolute evaluation of the noise performance of KG-A and KG-M guns is difficult and may only be obtained through appropriate experiments."
"Spurious harmonic power generated in TR tubes was investigated to determine if intersystem interference problems exist and to provide design criteria for controlling spurious signal generation. Harmonic power radiated from typical TR tubes was measured as a function of incident power, pressure, and geometry for discharges in chlorine, water vapor, hydrogen, nitrogen, and argon. Harmonic power decreased by about 20 dB for each decade increase in total pressure in the 0.2 to 20 torr range. Conversion loss varied from 28 to 70 dB. Harmonic power was radiated in a series of resonant peaks which varied with incident power and pressure. TR tubes meet the desired requirements for spurious radiation of -40 dBm/kHz for incident pulse widths less than 1.0 µs when filled to total pressures in the usual 10 to 15 torr range. At pulse widths greater than about 10 µs it becomes necessary to suppress spurious radiation by either filtering or harmonic trapping to reduce intersystem interference."
"It has been possible to flatten the electron image of a planar photocathode sufficiently well to obtain images with good center-to-edge focus on a planar screen. The essential element in the new tube is a spherical mesh with strong curvature. This mesh serves the dual function of a prefocusing lens in the approach space, and a field-flattening lens in the image space following. Additional advantages include an incidental correction of pin-cushion geometry and improved high voltage stability. Image resolution of over 16 line pairs/millimeter has been realized with meshes as are available at present. Further progress is entirely possible pending future developments in the technology of high-resolution meshes."
"Since the design criteria for reliable operation of a single gap at 300 kV are not well known, multiple-electrode triggered vacuum gaps were constructed. A six-gap structure was initially studied. It had excessive time delay in the initiation of the arc. Subsequently, a three-gap structure was built. Time delays in initiation of the arc were satisfactory, but the rate of rise of current was slow. In addition, voltage hold-off capability was marginal. To improve these characteristics, a low pressure of hydrogen, 7 to 25 mtorr, was added. Considerably improved firing characteristics and reliable voltage hold-off at 320 kV were obtained."
"Gate pulses applied to MOS transistors were found to stimulate a net flow of charge into the substrate. Investigation of this effect revealed a charge-pumping phenomeonon in MOS gate-controlled-diode structures. A first-order theory is given, whereby the injected charge is separated into two components. One component involves coupling via fast surface states at the Si-SiO2interface under the gate, while the other involves recombination of free inversion-layer charge into the substrate."
"The expression for the emitted photon flux of a non coherent electroluminescent diode of flat geometry is determined. Analysis covers both steady-state and transient response; the latter is related to the area and edge emission, respectively, and found to be limited by the diode impedance, by transit time effects in the p and n regions, and by radiation absorption losses. The possibility of an increase of both the external quantum efficiency and modulation cutoff frequency is discussed applying the derived results to the GaAs electroluminescent diode."
"A theoretical evaluation of the maximum attainable solar conversion efficiencies of p-n and n-p heterodiodes is presented. The calculations are made for some of the theoretically efficient and feasible heterojunctions of IV and III-V group semiconductors. In these calculations, the Anderson diffusion model is used and carrier concentrations of the two semiconductors are so chosen that photo-carriers generated do not have to surmount any junction barrier. The calculated efficiencies are compared with the reported experimental values and with the conventional Si photovoltaic cell."
"The cutoff frequency of punch-through diodes has been derived in a form which includes the dependence of bias voltage and extrinsic series resistance. The conditions for high cutoff frequency are described. Lower cutoff frequencies are predicted for thin epitaxial diodes."
"A gas discharge waveguide limiter in X-band with relatively fast recovery characteristics is discussed. The problem of supplying priming electrons at a sufficiently high rate to the microwave gap (to ensure first pulse breakdown at the beginning of the pulse) in a halogen-gas quartz system is overcome by using an ac ignitor. The ac ignitor voltage is coupled through the gas reservoir wall to maintain a weak discharge whose free electrons diffuse toward the microwave gap."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A study was made of the factors affecting the reliability of large-scale integrated (LSI) circuits. Particular attention was given to the effect on array reliability of the additional processing steps required to obtain multilevel metalization. The additional significant steps are low temperature deposition of a second dielectric layer on metalized LSI wafers, etching of vias through the second dielectric, and second level metalization. Consideration was also given to the effect of other trends in LSI, such as the use of smaller geometry and closer spacings. Possible new failure modes in multilevel arrays are: 1) shorts or increased leakage through or along deposited second layer dielectrics, 2) opens or increased series resistance in conductors, and 3) silicon surface effects. A review of literature on LSI was supplemented by results of a number of concurrent LSI programs and experimental studies. Test vehicles were designed to provide fundamental information about each of the categories of failure. Data obtained using these test vehicles to evaluate the multilevel metalized array structures are presented. A discussion concerning the merits and limitations of the specially designed test vehicles for process development, process control, and reliability tests is given. It is concluded that with the proper in-process controls, tests and screens, LSI arrays will be substantially more reliable per function accomplished than are conventional integrated circuits."
"Integrated circuits employing MOS devices will play a vital role in tomorrow's civilian and military electronics if their degradation in a radiation environment can be eliminated. One possible approach toward alleviating radiation effects in MOS devices is to use a material with a defect structure that does not allow predominant trapping of either holes or electrons as a gate insulator. This has been done by constructing MOS devices with plasma-grown aluminum oxide. The Al2O3films are formed by first depositing aluminum on freshly cleaned and properly prepared silicon wafers. Subsequently this aluminum is oxidized in an oxygen plasma and device fabrication is then completed. The devices have excellent characteristics and stability, and their fabrication is not restricted by the conditions of the ultra-clean procedures necessary for SiO2-Si devices. Exposure to 1-MeV electron bombardment at various fluence levels and bombardment-bias conditions shows that these structures possess remarkable radiation resistance. Up to a fluence of 1 × 1013e/cm2, under positive or negative bias, no oxide charge buildup or interface state generation is detectable. Above that fluence, only small shifts are observed. This indicates that an order of magnitude improvement in device hardening can be achieved by the use of this material."
"Recently, electromigration has been identified as a potential wear-out failure mode for semiconductor devices employing metal film conductors of inadequate cross-sectional area. A brief survey of electromigration indicates that although the effect has been known for several decades, a great deal of the processes involved is still unknown, especially for complex metals and solute ions. Earlier design equations are improved to account for conductor film cross-sectional area as well as film structure, film temperature, and current density. Design curves are presented which permit the construction of high reliability \"infinite life\" aluminum conductors for specific conditions of maximum current and temperature stress expected in use. It is also shown that positive gradients, in terms of electron flow, of temperature, current density, or ion diffusion coefficient foreshorten conductor life because they present regions where vacancies condense to form voids."
"The phenomena of electromigration is self-diffusion effect, and has an associated activation energy. Although the activation energy for bulk self-diffusion in aluminum is 1.48 eV, experimentally measured energies for films range approximately from 0.5 to 1.2 eV. This lower observed energy may be or has been ascribed by investigators to crystalline imperfections in and on the surface of the aluminum film. Of the three contributions to the effective activation energy, i.e., the surface, grain boundary, and bulk component, the surface component is here investigated. In light of the requirements for LSI and multilevel integrated circuitry, i.e., narrower, thinner metallizafion implying a larger surface to bulk atom ratio, correlation is made between surface treatment and effective activation energy of the conductor. Surface treatment is accomplished through vapor plating of dielectric overcoatings of P2O5-SiO2and Al2O3-SiO2glass. A study is made of the effects of dielectric overcoating as a function of aluminum thickness. It is seen that surface treatment is effective for ahtminum less than 5000 Å thick. It is further pointed out that for aluminum thickness greater than 6000 Å, surface passivation will have no effect with respect to electromigration. It has been shown that the type of aluminum deposition technique and deposition and post-deposition heat treatment is critical in obtaining the maximum bulk component of the activation energy. The dielectric overcoating, in combination with optimal bulk properties, increases the mean time between failure of the aluminum stripes by one to two orders of magnitude at high current densities and elevated ambients, than that found in many conventional integrated circuits."
"Chemical and metallurgical changes in IC metalization systems have been studied during a program of device reliability testing and evaluation. This paper discusses the four reactions responsible for the majority of the observed metalization failures: 1) migration of aluminum under silicon dioxide layers, 2) movement of silicon through both gold and aluminum wires resulting in loss of mechanical strength, 3) structural changes in the molybdenum-gold system occurring during temperature storage testing, and 4) the electrochemical attack of the molybdenum barrier layer resulting from humidity storage testing with applied bias. Using standard optical techniques and a commercially available electron beam microanalyzer/scanning electron microscope, the following results were obtained. 1) At temperatures near the silicon-aluminum eutectic point, aluminum migrated under the thermally grown oxide in the form of triangles oriented with respect to the underlying silicon. Aluminum migration was observed at lower temperatures when bias was applied to the device. This occurred at the interface of the thermal silicon dioxide and a vapor deposited glass. 2) Silicon precipitation at wire grain boundaries was observed in both aluminum and gold lead wires. The mechanisms of solid-state diffusion and high-current density electromigration of silicon resulted in wire fracture or slip at grain boundaries in the wires. 3) Silicon penetration into gold conductor stripes through defects in the molybdenum barrier layer resulted in severe reordering of the gold at temperatures in excess of 300°C. The silicon-gold eutectic was formed at temperatures greater than 370°C causing complete dewetting of the molybdenum layer. At lower temperatures, grain boundary flaking due to loss of gold cohension and adhesion was observed. 4) Whiskers which formed on molybdenum barrier layers during 85-85 humidity storage testing with applied bias contained high concentrations of sodium. Several known compounds of sodium and molybdenum are discussed in light of the X-ray data taken on the electron beam microprobe."
"A comprehensive study of a Cr-Ag-Au metalization system, as well as a comparison with an aluminum system, is described. The Cr-Ag-Au metalization system, which can be deposited in a conventional evaporator with relatively little increase in processing complexity, has the desirable characteristics of aluminum metalization. It can be patterned more easily than equivalent thicknesses of aluminum. The Cr-Ag-Au has excellent storage characteristics at 300°C and has a much longer mean time to failure than does aluminum under high current density-high temperature stress. In addition, measurements show that with the use of an enhancement diffusion the Cr-Ag-Au produces as good as or better contact to p- and n-type silicon than does aluminum. Finally, the absence of significant metalization-oxide interaction makes Cr-Ag-Au useful for MOS devices and the ease with which contact is made between layers of this metalization indicates a number of applications for Cr-Ag-Au in multilayered devices."
"This paper describes the application of the SEM to relatively deep studies of failure mechanisms and of the causes of poor device performance. The first section of the paper outlines ways in which existing SEM's can be integrated with the X-ray microanalyzer, the infrared microscope, the transmission electron microscope, etc., to complement macroscopic electrical measurements. It is shown that limitations arise either because 1) the present instruments are not sufficiently versatile for full exploitation in this type of work, 2) the contrast mechanisms available are not always fully understood, 3) quantitative analyses of the phenomenon exploited are not always available in suitable form, or 4) the irradiation inherent in the SEM alters the device properties. A subsequent section gives a description of work in progress to remove these limitations. In a third section particular problems are examined in depth. These include: 1) the establishment of a rapid, reliable method of obtaining two-dimensional quantitative data. This method is illustrated by measurements on Gunn diodes. 2) The study of dynamic events is outlined with particular reference to thermal problems. 3) The direct observation of thermal hot spots in the SEM is taken as an example of a new contrast mechanism. 4) The methods of eliminating beam-induced changes in devices are outlined."
"The recently developed scanning electron mirror microscope (SEMM) is compared with other types of electron microscopes, such as the electron mirror microscope (EMM) and the scanning electron microscope (SEM), for examining integrated circuits. Potential advantages of the SEMM include high resolution, elimination of electron bombardment damage, and high sensitivity of voltage gradients, magnetic fields, and topography. Preliminary observations of integrated, circuits obtained with the feasibility SEMM at various specimen potentials are discussed."
"Examples are given which illustrate the wide range of applicability of the scanning electron microscope to the processing of high reliability semiconductor products. The three areas selected for presentation are devitrifying solder glass seals for hermetic packages, voltage contrast examination of biased integrated circuits, and metallization corrosion problems encountered in processing technology. The scanning electron microscope gave useful information quickly, and, in some cases, it gave answers that other methods were unable to supply."
"Serious discontinuities in aluminum interconnections at contact windows of integrated circuits have been observed with the scanning electron microscope. In some instances the discontinuities have produced catastrophic failure. Two types of discontinuities have been observed and simulation of one type has been possible through exposure to temperatures 25° to 50°C below the aluminum-silicon eutectic of 577°C. Preliminary electron probe analysis has revealed the presence of silicon in the interconnection regions overlying the silicon dioxide steps bordering the contact windows."
"The successful development of LSI circuitry with multilevel metallization requires the development of practical means for insuring the highest level of performance and reliability. This requires the development of a broad fundamental understanding of the factors that affect the semiconductor-insulator interface and of practical means for measuring the fundamental properties of this Interface. A comprehensive model has been developed that includes each of the known factors that influences the electrical properties of the semiconductor-insulator interface. The design and use of test structures for measuring the effects of each of these factors are discussed. Test structures are shown to be useful for the preliminary evaluation, development, and control of materials, techniques, equipment, and processes, and for reliability assessment. The test structures are useful in connection with both MOS and bipolar circuits and over the entire range of circuit complexity. Effects of variations in materials or processes on the electrical properties of the interface are given. Experimental data are given that demonstrate the utility of test structures for the evaluation of materials, process, and structural designs, and for production controls and reliability assessment."
"The influence of primary (e.g., grown-in) dislocations on transistor is studied by making use of the Sirtl etch for the detection of crystallographic imperfections. The first part of this paper demonstrates a one to one relationship between soft characteristics, caused by emitter-collector pipes and the presence of sliplines in transistors. The sliplines, which are bands of high dislocation density, can be revealed only within the collector regions of the examined transistor. The second part shows that dislocations can also be revealed within the emitter and base regions when an auxiliary voltage is applied on the collector during the etching procedure. As the emitter of the used test vehicle is divided into many small regions (3 by 10 microns), the electrical behavior of even single dislocations can be detected with the aid of this etching technique. It is concluded that the primary dislocations provide paths for locally enhanced diffusion of the phosphorus impurities in shallow diffused structures. Phosphorus precipitates within the high-concentration part of the solute profile are probably the cause of this enhancement. It is demonstrated that the enhanced diffusion along primary dislocations causes serious leaks between emitter and collector in shallow diffused transistors. The resistance of these pipes can be in the order of 10,000 ohms."
"The kinetics or time dependence of a device quantity has an explicit effect on the time-to-failure distribution resulting from a given distribution of device degradation coeffecients. In particular, for nth power kinetics, the larger the value of n, the smaller the deviation from the mean."
"Reverse bias stress of the emitter-base junction may degrade the hFEof a transistor when it is operated under normal bias conditions. The degradation mechanism exhibits no measurable temperature dependence and appears to be a surface effect. The junction characteristics exhibit no structure as a function of field plate voltage after stress. Pulse measurements indicate that the time required to induce degradation is less then 1.0 µs. Hot carriers appear to have an appreciable effect on the degradation. A mathematical model is presented to facilitate the comparison of degradation on devices with different initial current gains."
"Electromigration in gold film conductors results in regions of material accumulation and depletion. These regions arise from and are correlated with the thermal gradients along the conductor. This result is in contrast with the observations on aluminum conductors where the effect is dominated by the structure or metallurgical properties of the film."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A device is described whereby millimeter or submillimeter wave images obtained from reflecting targets can be converted to visible displays providing a cathode ray tube presentation. The principle of the technique is based on the fact that transmitted power at these wavelengths can be modulated by a semiconductor panel in which the bulk conductivity is changed by electronic means. Experimental data is reported."
"This paper explores the relationship between the energy-gap voltage of a p-n junction and the saturation value of the open-circuit photovoltage produced by high-intensity illumination. It is shown that high excess-carrier concentrations in the quasi-neutral regions are accompanied by significant open-circuit drops in the quasi-Fermi voltages of both carriers in these regions. When these drops are accounted for, the open-circuit photovoltage is found to be less than the split between the quasi-Fermi voltages in the space-charge layer (which split is approximately equal to the energy-gap voltage) by an amount which depends on the ratio of the mobilities of the two carriers. This approximate theory reconciles the apparent inconsistencies in previously reported measurements of the saturated photovoltages of silicon and gallium-arsenide p-n junctions."
"High-frequency noise parameters of junction FETs and MOSFETs have been determined experimentally. It is shown that the usual noise specifications given in present-day data sheets are not sufficient to describe the noise behavior. A very important noise parameter is the source admittance. However, the exact evaluation of the optimum source admittance, which yields the minimum noise figure, is very complicated. An approximative method is thus described which gives good results and is in good agreement with the experiment."
"A relatively simple thin-film structure using vanadium dioxide is analyzed in detail to show that high-temperature, low-resistivity filaments can exist in VO2under appropriate electrical bias. These filaments will dominate both the static and dynamic electrical behavior of the structure, giving rise to V-I characteristics similar to those expected from materials exhibiting current-controlled bulk negative resistivities. The analysis indicates that these filaments may not only provide electrical features important from a device point of view, but also provide a tool for the measurement of fundamental material properties and for studying the dynamics of the phase transition in VO2."
"Avalanche transit time oscillators are operating at power densities approaching 106W/cm2, unprecedented in semiconductor device history. At such power densities, heat flow resistance problems at the interface between the flip-chip mounted silicon chips and the metal substrate, as well as between the package and the heat sink, are extremely critical. This paper describes a new, nondestructive and accurate method of measuring the heat flow resistance between junction and heat sink by utilizing the temperature dependent breakdown voltage Vb(T) as a conveniently built-in temperature sensor. Variations in junction temperature ΔT with power ΔP= VbΔI are, therefore, related to variations in breakdown voltage ΔVbwith current ΔI resulting in a contribution to the electrical small signal resistance of the diode. This thermal resistance contribution Rthcan be separated readily from spreading and space charge resistance Rapand Rscbecause of the frequency dependence of Rth(ω). Furthermore, the frequency dependence of Rth(ω) allows the separation of heat flow resistance contributions originating in the immediate vicinity of the junction (Si-metal interface) from contributions originating at a poor thermal contact between package and heat sink. In keeping with calculations on simplified geometrical configurations, for which analytical solutions of the frequency dependent heat flow in a distributed circuit could be obtained, experimental results are presented which indicate that both heat flow resistance contributions can be extracted and separated with sufficient accuracy from as few as three electrical resistance measurements, e.g., at dc, 100 Hz, and 1 MHz. The simplicity of such measurements and their evaluation make this technique ideal for in-line testing of production devices."
"A new technique for plotting doping profiles of semiconductor wafers is described. This technique involves driving a Schottky diode deposited on the surface with a small constant RF current (a few hundred microamperes at 5 MHz). The depth of the depletion layer is varied by changing the dc bias, but this is the only role of the dc voltage. The inverse doping profile n-1(x) is obtained by monitoring the voltage across the diode at the fundamental frequency, which is proportional to the depth x, and the second harmonic voltage, which is proportional to n-1. This type of plotter has the advantages of simplicity, high resolution (limited only by the Debye length in most cases), immediate results, and economy."
"Electrostatic screening in the metal contact of a Schottky (metal-semiconductor) diode is shown to influence the calculated electrical characteristics of the diode. A thin space-charge layer is formed at the surface of the metal contact by capacitively induced free charges, This results in a voltage dependent diminution of the barrier height of the diode that increases in magnitude with increasing semiconductor dielectric constant and carrier concentration. Predicted values of the barrier height diminution exceed those attributed to image forces or tunneling effects for materials with dielectric constants greater than about 20. In diodes using semiconducting ferroelectric or piezoelectric materials, an additional diminution of the barrier height results from free charges induced in the metal contact by a remanent polarization field or an externally applied mechanical stress. Current-voltage characteristics of a metal-semiconductor diode are shown to be significantly influenced by the electrostatic screening effect. A soft breakdown current as opposed to saturation current is predicted for reverse biases while an exponential forward current with an η coefficient exceeding unity is predicted for forward biases. Photoemission characteristics are also affected. A voltage-dependent diminution of the threshold energy for photoresponse is predicted. Capacitance-voltage characteristics, on the other hand, differ only slightly from those of an ideal Schottky diode except in the case of a ferroelectric diode where excessively large screening effects are possible."
"An analysis of base widening and the current dependence of the cutoff frequency fThas been given previously [1]. The analysis is approximate and is based on the location of the edges of transition regions. Definition of transition regions becomes problematic in transistors having nonuniform base doping and for high-current densities. Such difficulties are avoided in this paper by use of the charge control approach. Numerical solutions of delay time (= 1/2\\pi f_{T}) as a function of current density are given for low reverse collector bias. Whereas transition regions can be defined only approximately, the electric field is a well-defined quantity, and changes in the electric field that accompany base widening are shown in detail. At low injection levels, a high-field region exists near the transition between base and epitaxial layer. This high-field region is relocated to the interface between epitaxial layer and substrate under high injection conditions. When this \"high-field relocation\" has occurred, the epitaxial layer acts as an extension of the base with an attendant increase in the delay time [1]."
"The forward-biased current-voltage and forward-to-reverse biased switching characteristics of p+-n-n+epitaxial diodes are investigated. The manner in which the n-n+junction affects the flow of injected minority carriers in the epitaxial region is characterized by a leakage parameter a. Experimentally, for diodes with epitaxial film widths much less than a diffusion length, a \"box\" profile accurately describes the injected minority carriers in the n region. The current is found to increase with increased epitaxial width at a fixed bias. A general switching expression for epitaxial diodes is presented and the validity of the expression is shown experimentally. The experimental values of a, determined independently from the current-voltage and switching characteristics, are in good agreement and show that the leakage of the high-low junction is dominated by the recombination of minority carriers in the n-n+space-charge region."
"At the present time all p-n-p-n devices are used exclusively as switches. The p-n-p-n tetrode however, is also capable of operating as a linear amplifier. A model describing the operation of such a device as a semiconductor tetrode amplifier is presented. The equations characterizing this model are based on the physical structure of a commercially available silicon planar p-n-p-n tetrode; they are used 1) to derive the device terminal characteristics, 2) to synthesize small-signal equivalent circuits suitable for low-frequency operation (h-parameter circuit) and for high-frequency operation (bridged hybrid-π circuit), 3) to study the dependence of short-circuit gains of the tetrode on the dc biasing currents and frequency, and 4) to obtain a stability condition which must be satisfied to insure that the operation of the device is restricted in its OFF state where it can function as a small-signal linear amplifier. The theoretical results are in close agreement with experimental values."
"Thin film silicon-on-sapphire diodes have been reverse biased into second breakdown and the formation of a filament has been observed between the anode and cathode. This filamentary conduction was accompanied by emission of visible radiation, the light being much more intense than that associated with avalanche or microplasma emission. The filamentary emission appeared to be associated with both thermal heating of the diode to temperatures as hot as 600-800°C and the formation of a plasma. Quantum efficiencies as high as 0.04 percent have been observed and plasmas extending over anode-cathode spacings of up to 100 µm have been observed."
"The small-signal gain of an electrostatically focused klystron (ESFK) will be different from that of a conventional klystron because the drift tube is not dc field free and the RF bunching process is altered. A method for calculating the small-signal gain of an ESFK, based on a space-charge wave analysis of the lens cell, is presented. Calculated and measured values of small-signal gain for several different ESFK's are given."
"This list of references has been prepared as a supplement to our \"Gunn Effect Bibliography,\" which appeared in this Transactions, vol. ED-15, pp. 777-788, October 1968. These references represent 1968 articles that have been published since the original bibliography was submitted, as well as additional earlier articles."
"The propagation coefficient of a microstrip line, into which a two-valley semiconducator is insterted instead of the dielectric layer of the conventional microstrip line, is analyzed. The analytical results show the feasibility of making an electronically tunable Gunn-didode oscillator."
"A formula is derived relating the peak output voltage of the phototransistor operating in the charge storage mode to the average illumination current for low signal levels. This formula reveals the non-linearity in response apparent at low signal levels caused by the presence of the base-emitter junction. Sensitivity formulas are derived which enable the calculation of uniformity in response from device to device in an image sensing array."
"In the course of determining the transient thermal impedance of power thyristors, step-like shifts are often observed in the temperature-sensitive voltage characteristic used to estimate the virtual junction temperature of the device. This correspondence describes investigations which have shown that these step-like shifts are in fact spontaneous voltage transients which are highly sensitive functions of current and temperature, and which cause small hysteresis effects in the voltage-current characteristics of the device. A simple method for adjusting the temperature sensitive voltage data to correct for such shifts is described; the method yields valid transient thermal impedance determinations in far less time than could be realized without the correction method."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Recent work has shown that some ferroelectrics of the tungsten-bronze-type are potentially useful because they exhibit large linear electrooptic and second harmonic generation coefficients, are easily growable, and do not suffer from laser damage. We review these crystal systems in terms of a biased quadratic electro-optic effect gijfrom which the linear electrooptic properties can be predicted or vice versa. These relations are experimentally valid for KSr2Nb5O15. The resulting values of gijare similar to those found for other NbO6-type crystals (e.g., KNbO3, etc.), as are the measured values of the coefficients in the Devonshire free energy expansion. Thus fundamental properties of these tungsten-bronze ferroelectrics appear to be determined by the properties of the lattice of NbO6octahedra which are linked together by sharing oxygen corners as in the case of the structurally related perovskites. In view of the importance of the NbO6octrahedra in determining the behavior of the niobate ferroelectrics, we consider next the problems of improving the properties of the tungsten-bronze type materials while maintaining a homogeneous sublattice of NbO6octahedra. This has been done by moving the transition temperature Tcclose to room temperature as in (Ba, Sr)Nb2O6and KSr2Nb5O15+xLaNb3O9. We have also examined the system KxNa1-xBa2Nh5O15and show that the advantageous properties of NaBa2Nb5O15can be effectively retained while eliminating the deleterious effect of microtwinning in these crystals. Finally we Show that at least the order of magnitude of the strain-optic effect which relates change of index to strain, can be understood in terms of the shifts of electronic bands with strain. This is analogous to the understanding of gijin terms of shifts of electronic bands with polarization, a subject that is reviewed in this paper."
"The electrooptic and ferroelectric properties of glass-ceramic systems containing Na0.5K0.5NbO3and BaTiO3as the crystalline phases are presented. Domain activity is observed by dielectric and optical hysteresis measurements, although it becomes significant only at the larger crystallite size. Thus, the samples transmit light to only a small extent. Bistable optical switching has been achieved with 105V/cm, 100-µs duration pulses. The ratio of transmission measured between crossed polarizers is 2:1."
"Ferroelectric lead zirconate-titanate ceramics appear promising for use as electrically controlled retarders because both conventional electrooptic and nonvolatile incremental retardation changes can be induced in areas as small as 25 µ on a side. One particular composition, Pb0.97La0.02Zr0.65Ti0.35O3, has so far proved superior to all other rhombohedral lead zirconate-titanates when judged by either the conventional electrooptic retardation variation with applied bias voltage, or the nonvolatile incremental retardation change with remanent polarization state of the ceramic. Furthermore, this same lanthanum-doped composition exhibits a marked decrease in undesirable light scattering when compared with extensive data on the same composition with bismuth doping. Scattering also decreases with increasing wavelength λ, and the ceramic transmittance is greater than 85 percent for 3 µ<λ<8 µ with sample thickness less than 50 µ. This increased transmittance now makes feasible the construction of multistage ceramic electrooptic systems."
"The dielectric properties of KTN under applied dc biasing fields were studied. Applications of fields caused the Curie temperature to shift toward higher temperatures and the value of the dielectric constant at the peak to be reduced. A field of 6 kV/cm resulted in a shift of the Curie point by 8°C. The loss tangent was similarly affected by the field. At the Curie temperature, the loss tangent was quite high, about 0.2. A field of 6 kV/cm reduced it by a factor of about 3."
"The ferroelectric field effect has been observed in a semiconducting thin film of n-type tin oxide deposited on a ferroelectric lead zirconate-titanate ceramic substrate. The semiconductor was deposited by electron gun evaporation onto a thermally depolarized (randomly oriented) substrate which permitted the carrier concentration of the film to be enhanced or depleted depending on the direction of polarization of the substrate. Typical average resistivity values of 200-Å films are approximately 0.1 Ω.cm for the depoled state, 0.01 Ω.cm for the enhanced state, and 100-1000 Ω.cm for the depleted state. \"On\"-\"off\" ratios as high as1.7 \\times 10^{5}have been observed in a single device. The transition from enhancement to depletion is quasi-continuous due to the small size and random orientation of the individual crystallites in the ceramic. Conductance measurements during this transition have yielded field effect mobilities in the range 7-10 cm2/V.s; and maximum average carrier densities in the range 0.5-1.0 × 1020carriers/cm3. The tin oxide-ceramic devices described here suffer from the long-term drift that is characteristic of many field effect devices. The resistivity of a device stored in the depleted state will decrease from 3 to 4 orders of magnitude in times between 104-105minutes."
"A method for forming intimate contact with ferroelectrics and other dielectric materials is proposed. The method, involving the use of a \"graded\" electrode structure, is shown to be very effective for making a stable, intimate contact to ferroelectric bismuth titanate (Bi4Ti3O12). In terms of stability, no distortion in the hysteresis pattern of bismuth titanate samples has been observed in more than three years of observation when a graded electrode is used. In terms of the information of an intimate contact, the minimization of various \"contact effects\" is demonstrated by the marked reduction of observed coercive field strength when a graded electrode (as opposed to a conventional metal electrode) is used. For Bi4Ti3O12, the graded electrode structure used consists of a thin semiconducting tin dioxide film placed between a metal and the ferroelectric body."
"Diffuse-transition electromorphic ceramics have been investigated for parametric device applications in extreme temperature and radiation environments. The circuit properties of nonlinear capacitors fabricated from such materials were found to be relatively constant over a temperature range of hundreds of degrees centigrade and extremely insensitive to nuclear radiation. Because of dielectric relaxation behavior, efficient parametric device applications are limited to below 10 MHz with presently available materials. An antiferroelectric composition provided more efficient parametric amplification at the higher frequencies than did the ferroelectric compositions investigated."
"The heat dissipated by the polarization reversal of a ferroelectric crystal can stabilize its temperature near the Curie point under the proper conditions of applied voltage and frequency. Such an \"autostabilized-temperature device,\" or TANDEL, has been developed and applied to several uses, including measurement of pH of solutions, megohmmeters, and sensitive gas flow meters."
"A mathematical model and analysis method for discrete parameter thermistor networks are developed. Methods for predicting the static conditions and the stability and sensitivity of the equilibrium points are given. The dynamic behavior is discussed using numerical analysis methods. Experimental results have been obtained to verify the analysis methods for the case of oscillatory behavior. The analysis method is then used to predict the behavior of the oscillator as the applied voltage, thermal capacitance, dissipation factor, and ambient temperature are varied. It is concluded that the mathematical model and analysis methods predict the behavior of the discrete parameter thermistor networks. The temperature gradients in the elements in still air appear to be negligible, but caution must be used in applying the methods to those networks where the temperature gradients may not be negligible."
"The pyroelectric detector is a thermal sensor of infra-red radiation requiring no bias. While in principle a pure capacitor (hence theoretically noiseless), the detector has a varying noise contribution as a function of frequency due to a load resistor, series loss resistance, and amplifier. The actual sensor is a pyroelectric crystal exhibiting spontaneous polarization. The spontaneous polarization and dielectric constant of the crystal are temperature-dependent. A change in incident power raises the detector temperature causing an electric charge to appear across the electroded surfaces cut perpendicular to the crystal's ferroelectric axis. Under open circuit conditions, a voltage is obtained which is ultimately neutralized by current flow through the leakage resistance or load resistor. The evacuated detector package incorporates an electroded flake of triglycine sulfate mounted on a substrate of low thermal and electrical conductivity, a field effect transistor, load resistor, and an infrared transparent window. Data on the detectivity, responsivity, and noise as a function of frequency and area are presented. Polycrystalline pyroelectric detectors of TGS are feasible and simplify the construction of arrays and mosaics. Applications of the pyroelectric detector to date have been in a multielement line scanner, thermal imaging camera, spectrometer, and laser calorimeter."
"The utility of ferroelectrics for piezoelectric devices rests on two characteristics, asymmetry and high dielectric constant. In one type of ferroelectric crystal, including Rochelle salt, asymmetry is intrinsic in the structure. Substances which owe their piezoelectric effect to ferroelectric polarity are of particular utility because domain orientation by electric field imparts piezoelectric response to polycrystalline bodies. Once this orientation has been achieved one usually desires to have a minimum of the nonlinearity, hysteresis losses, and high temperature coefficients connected with ferroelectricity. This has been achieved with modified barium titanate and especially lead titanate zirconate ceramics. Use of piezoelectric transducers in electroacoustics and ultrasonics has kept pace with the general growth in these fields, especially in phonograph pickups, industrial ultrasonics, and underwater acoustics. Piezoelectric spark sources for gas lighting are becoming a substantial consumer item. Piezoelectric ceramic IF filters both for 455 kHz and 10.7 MHz are of increasing interest due to their ruggedness and small size compatible with transistor and integrated circuitry."
"Magnetically encoded cards are currently being utilized for train tickets and for door (access) keys to restricted areas. This implementation suffers from numerous serious deficiencies, of which the worst is the ease with which the magnetically coded information may be altered or copied. Alteration may be accidental or with intent to defraud. Security may be questionable depending upon the sophistication required to determine the encoded information. Ferroelectric encoded cards also provide information coding for security and identification, but this is not readily subject to compromise. These cards are immune to accidental modification of their encoded information and such information is not readily ascertained. As with all innovations, there are excellent attributes and those not so desirable. These are discussed in the paper."
"A 1200-element matrix addressed ferroelectric-electroluminescent display has been built with doctor-bladed Pb0.99[(Zr0.50Sn0.50)0.86Ti0.14]0.98Nb0.02O3ferroelectric ceramic. Each display element comprises a diode and a three-cell ferroelectric control circuit which stores the video information and drives an associated electroluminescent cell. The characteristics of the three-cell circuit are described in terms of the pertinent properties of the doctor-bladed ceramic. A design procedure based on the properties of the ferroelectric and electroluminescent materials is given for determining the cell dimensions and the driving voltage needed to obtain a specified maximum brightness, transfer characteristic, and contrast ratio. The 6- by 8-inch display panel, driven from a vidicon camera source, has been operated with high reliability for approximately 40 hours spread over a year. Subjective tests have shown that satisfactory gray scale, moving images can be obtained which are comparable to those of a conventional TV receiver. The average power dissipated is 175 watts. The measured variation in the transfer characteristics and the highlight brightness (16 ± 4 fL) was found to be due primarily to variations in the ferroelectric coercive voltage. These variations are due to nonuniformities in thickness caused by differential shrinkage during the firing of the 60 doctor-bladed strips (4- by 0.5- by 0.003-inch nominal) used in the display. Techniques exist for reducing these variations."
"Design considerations and initial experimental results are presented for a photoconductor-ferroelectric memory scheme employing monoclinic bismuth titanate as the ferroelectric. Photoconductor access during writing has been achieved, and the non-destructive optical READ capability of bismuth titanate has been demonstrated. These results indicate that by means of such a device, a completely optically accessed memory plane is possible."
"A new type of ferroelectric which exhibits a threshold switching field and a number of highly useful technical properties is simply distinguished from ordinary ferroelectrics as ferrielectrics. These new materials have been described in detail in various publications. The good industrial properties of the mixed bismuth oxide (MBO) ferrielectrics permitted the extension of work on fundamental research into applied research. The objective of this work was to demonstrate that capacitor elements comprised of MBO-type ferrielectrics exhibiting a threshold field as a dielectric represent an important improvement as compared to ordinary ferroelectric capacitors, and they can be utilized as logic and memory devices. Work was essentially devoted to the following application areas. 1) Improved field controlled polarization transfer devices (Transpolarizers ®) were developed. These transpolarizers utilize internally biased MBO-type ferrielectrics which made it possible to block and unblock the transpolarizer with opposite polarity pulses. Furthermore two-section transpolarizers requiring only ten volts for switching have been fabricated. Due to the improved switching features and low switching levels attained, these transpolarizers are compatible with transistor technology. 2) An exploratory content addressable memory system using these improved transpolarizers was developed and constructed, and its operating features are described."
"Measurements of the electrocaloric effect from 78 to 130 K were made on crystalline KH2PO4and are discussed in terms of the phenomenological theory of Devonshire and others. The predicted quadratic dependence of the electrocaloric effect upon applied field (and polarization) in the paraelectric phase was shown to occur; however, the constant of proportionality involved coincided with the value computed from Curie-Weiss law only at the highest temperatures. The electrocaloric effect in the ferroelectric phase was found to be approximately a linear function of the applied field provided the low-field irreversible region of hysteresis was ignored. Values of the spontaneous polarization were determined from the electro-caloric measurements and found to be in good agreement with the values obtained by extrapolating the hysteresis loops to zero field. If the Curie-Weiss term in the Devonshire free-energy expansion is retained when the crystal is in its ferroelectric phase, then evidently a single Devonshire function will not describe KH2PO4in both the ferroelectric and paraelectric phases."
"Ferroelectric domain boundaries in \"Remeika\" single crystals of tetragonal barium titanate were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Both 180 and 90° walls were observed and are described with regard to appearance and motion. The 90° boundaries are discussed in greater detail with respect to their interactions and nucleation."
"Experimental work conducted on pyroelectric detectors in the microwave and millimeter wave regions show that the response time of such a device utilizing TGS at room temperature is on the order of 40 ns. An analysis is presented which shows good agreement with the experimental results for both long and short duration pulses. Observing the pyroelectric response also provides a direct measure of the thermal conductivity of the material. Our estimated value for TGS at room temperature is9.1 \\times 10^{-5}cal/cm.s.°C."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A mathematical technique for solving Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force equation with no approximations except the small-signal approximation is presented. A finite dc magnetic field parallel to the dc velocity of the charges is included. Polarization variables are used, and the boundary conditions include ac surface charge density and surface current density. The advantages of the method are that both fast waves and slow waves are included without a quasi-static approximation, and only the determinantal equation requires computer solution. The partial differential equations are solved directly and need not be solved by computer."
"Using the mathematical field analysis of a companion paper in this issue, solutions are found for the wave interactions occurring in several different configurations of drifting electron beams in a longitudinal magnetic field. First, wave interactions are found for both single and double beams of infinite extent. Next, single and double beams completely filling a cylindrical waveguide are analyzed. Finally, examination is made of single and double beams which only partially fill the waveguide. The resulting wave interactions are described with ω-β (dispersion) diagrams. Since only the small-signal approximation is made, space-charge waves, cyclotron waves, and waveguide waves are all present in this analysis."
"A theoretical development is presented that describes the operation of a vidicon. Output current is determined for an arbitrary distribution of intensity and wavelength of illumination falling on the face of the vidicon. The nonlinear behavior of the photoconductor is taken into account. The effect of progressive erasure of the stored charge on the rear of the photoconductor with the motion of the electron beam is included. The readout beam is assumed to be Gaussian with either a circular or elliptical cross section. The effect of the electron beam on lines other than that being scanned is included. Variation in electron beam spot size across the face of the vidicon is also considered. Correlation with published output data is presented. The apparent phase shift of objects, especially at high beam currents, can be significant. Numerical results for the cases of line and sinusoidal targets are discussed in detail."
"The short-circuit current of the base layer of a drift-field solar cell is calculated, using better approximations for the electric field and for the mobility variation than used by previous authors [2],[3]. The discrepancies between the results of Kaye and Rolik [2] and of Bullis and Runyan [3] are explained. We come to the conclusion that the advantage of a drift-field solar cell is mainly determined by the layer closest to the junction. To obtain a high collection efficiency, the impurity concentration close to the junction must be small and the impurity concentration ratio between back and front of the drift-field layer must be large."
"A simple model is analyzed to quantitatively describe the operation of a new electroluminescent device constructed in the metal-insulator-semiconductor geometry to which an alternating voltage is applied. Expressions for the average emission intensity, power dissipation, and power efficiency are derived in terms of the operating conditions and material parameters for both the insulator and the semiconductor. From these results the optimum operating conditions for the device are determined and several quantitative criteria for evaluating promising insulators and semiconductors are discussed. Supporting results for devices constructed from GaP with TiO2for the insulator are given."
"A study of domain behavior in nonuniformly doped bulk semiconductor devices is undertaken, leading to a simple graphical technique useful for the analysis of these structures. Several device configurations are treated in this fashion and further examined with the aid of a digital computer program written by the author for simulation of the bulk effect in n-GaAs. The operation of these devices is illustrated with computer-generated graphic displays of electric field, carrier distribution, and device current as a function of time."
"It is shown that the onset of conductivity modulation of the bulk collector resistance causes an abrupt decrease in hFEat high current density and consequently limits the current range in which a transistor exhibits usable gain. Data are presented which demonstrate the accurate measurement of equilibrium collector resistance from a curve-tracer display. Experimental results showing the effect of partial saturation upon transistor switching time are also presented. Recognition of this phenomenon suggests a reappraisal of the importance of other potential causes of high current hFEdecrease."
"The analysis, fabrication, and operation of a p-in photovoltaic cell that is suitable for use at the very high illumination intensities, which are encountered in a thermo-photovoltaic system, are presented. The device performance has been measured under pulse conditions to 790 W/cm2of incident radiation. The efficiency of operation is limited at very high illumination levels by an increase in the reflection coefficient. Open circuit voltages of 0.42 volts and short circuit currents in excess of 40 A/cm2of illuminated surface have been observed for germanium devices. Operating efficiencies at various incident light intensities are reported. The analysis includes an estimate of the effect of the electric field that occurs in the intrinsic region."
"High-perveance electron guns with a subfocusing electrode were designed analytically, produced, and tested. The experiments are carried out to evaluate the design method. Perveance of guns are 1.7 to 1.3 × 10-6A/V3/2, convergence angles being 30°. The results confirmed that it was possible to design electron guns of perveance up to 3.0 × 10-6A/V3/2."
"It is known that the initial saturation of current and subsequent current oscillations in photoconducting CdS is caused by the presence of high electric field domains traveling at the acoustic shear-wave velocity. The behavior of travel ing domains in nonuniform two-dimensional CdS samples is here studied for the first time. Experimental data showing both the uniform domain propagation in homogeneous region and the nonuniform domain propagation in inhomogeneous region of the two-dimensional samples reveal that domain formation and propagation are consistent with the acoustoelectric model. Local domains originating from the inhomogeneous part of the sample do not propagate in the direction of the applied field and thus may increase the effective traveling path."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes some of the observations made as a result of the test of 180 thermionic converters and of the postmortem metallographic examination of approximately 50 converters. The causes and effects of converter abnormal performance are related to the results of the metallographic examinations. The materials and fabrication methods utilized in converter construction are discussed together with areas of possible improvement, the goal being long-life converters capable of reliable performance."
"Seven fixed-spacing thermionic converters with planar electrodes and one with cylindrical electrodes were designed and built on the basis of data from a planar variable-spacing thermionic test vehicle operated at emitter temperatures of 1600-2000 K in 100 degree increments. Electrodes in the variable-spacing device and in five of the planar converters were of polycrystalline rhenium; those in the other two planar converters, and in the cylindrical converter were of vapor-deposited rhenium. The design performance of all fixed-spacing planar converters, compared with the test vehicle data, fell within 6.5 percent of predicted values; performance of the cylindrical converter was within 1.1 percent of the predicted value. The performance of the cylindrical converter was also compared with that of a corresponding planar converter and was found to be in excellent agreement. The converter designed for a 2000 K emitter temperature had completed 11 600 hours of life testing as of October 15, 1958, at a constant power output of approximately 27 W/cm2at 0.77 volt. It was also observed that the design points for the five planar converters with polycrystalline rhenium electrodes fell on a straight line when optimum power output was plotted as a function of emitter temperature."
"The performance of 12 identical thermionic converters fabricated to a given set of specifications, is reported. The converters were of planar geometry. The emitters were solid rhenium, and the collectors were arc-cast molybdenum. The average output power of the converters at an emitter temperature of 2000°K and an output voltage of 0.7 volt was 37.5 watts (18.75 W/cm2) with a standard deviation of 1.3 watts (0.65 W/cm2). Voltage-current characteristics of the converters at an emitter temperature of 1975°K are also presented."
"At the recent International Conference on Thermionic Electrical Power Generation (Stresa, May 1968) a large number of research papers were presented which were devoted to an understanding of the thermionic diode. It is the purpose of the present paper to review the recent presentations at Stresa. It will be shown from these papers that in the 2½ years since the first International Conference, significant advances have been made in the physics of the cesium diode. In particular, these include new interpretations of current-voltage characteristics, the use of gases other than cesium, spectroscopic plasma diagnostics, diode probe studies, plasma-sheath studies, studies of ionization and recombination, and computer solutions for the diode. That they might be seen in context, brief reference is made to other recent publications. Papers devoted to surface phenomena are not discussed."
"Spectroscopic measurements of the electron density and temperature have been made on a planar thermionic converter operated in the quasi-saturation region of the ignited mode. The effects of several independent converter variables on the electron density were investigated quantitatively. From this investigation it was found that the emitter temperature and current density were the most significant parameters affecting the electron density. Collector temperature, cesium vapor pressure, and interelectrode spacing were less important. Complete electron density profiles and electron temperature profiles were obtained and compared to conditions characteristic of local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE). A representative case indicated the measured temperature, 2600°K, was only 200°K higher than required for complete LTE in the region of the peak electron density. This corresponds to an electron density approximately 45 percent below the equilibrium value."
"It is assumed that surface mobility of alkali metals adsorbed on refractory metal surfaces is achieved by hops between adjacent adsorption sites and is constrained by intermetallic bonds with the surface as well as covalent (partly ionic) bonds and dipole interaction between adsorbed particles. A survey reduces the crystallographic considerations to two basic types. A Monte-Carlo computer simulation is then performed to obtain estimates of the free area of translation. This form of the free area function is used in the prediction of emission rates from cesiated tungsten and molybdenum, and results in improved correlation with experimental data for materials of interest in the development of thermionic diodes."
"Surface characterization studies were performed on chemically vapor deposited (CVD) tungsten. Two specimens of tungsten were taken from each of three sample lots and prepared with standard cleaning and firing procedures and then electropolished. In order to evaluate the effect of grain size, one set of specimens was given an additional vacuum firing at 2500°C to promote grain growth. Surfaces of tungsten were characterized by Auger analysis, X-ray diffraction analysis, etch pit analysis, and low energy electron diffraction (LEED) analysis. A description of the various methods along with the results are presented."
"An analysis is made of a thermionic converter network coupled to a nuclear reactor heat source. The network is located out-of-core and the waste heat from the converters is removed by several heat pipes. The optimization, constraints, and advantages of this concept are described in some detail. Results are compared with in-core thermionic converter concept."
"Ultimate heat-transfer limitations imposed by sonic vapor flow were determined in heat pipes for sodium, potassium, and cesium working fluids. Each fluid was investigated in a heat pipe consisting of an inner porous tube, an annulus for liquid return, and an outer container tube. Thin, rigid tubes with very small pores were obtained by compressing several layers of fine-mesh screen. These tubes allowed large capillary forces to develop so that sonic vapor flow could be achieved at several operating temperatures. The results of the investigation showed that sonic limitations were influenced strongly by the temperature and the working fluid. Reasonable agreement was found between the experimental results and existing theory. It was also found that the theory could be used to predict evaporator pressure and temperature gradients when the heat pipes were operated at various fractions of their ultimate heat-transfer capability."
"It is shown that under certain conditions of heat input, reservoir temperature, and load voltage or resistance a thermionic converter can equilibrate at two radically different operation points, corresponding to conditions of high and low cesium coverage. Moreover, abrupt transitions between these operating regimes, accompanied by a temperature rise of hundreds of degrees, can occur whenever the critical heat generation rate for a given reservoir temperature is exceeded. To provide an adequate safety margin against such an occurrence, thermionic systems must be operated at relatively high cesium pressures, even though this may cause some performance degradation. This paper consists of two parts. The first explains the above effect with reference to a single converter. The second part illustrates the effect of cesium reservoir temperatures on the dynamic behavior of an open-loop thermionic reactor following a small reactivity perturbation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An examination of the problem of obtaining high-efficiency operation of a Gunn oscillator is given in this paper. The results are based on an assumed form of I-V characteristic of the Gunn diode, the ideal voltage and current waveforms being found for high-efficiency operation. The theory for a square wave of current through and voltage across the diode is worked out in detail and shown to predict the experimental results well. It is shown that a voltage waveform consisting of only a fundamental and second harmonic component could give efficiencies in the 20-28 percent range, as much as a factor of 3 larger than for a simple sinusoid. This is a reasonable approximation to the ideal voltage waveform, which is a half sinusoid of voltage. In this paper the charge and discharge time of the domain is neglected. An estimate of these times is given in the Appendix, and it is shown that the efficiency theory should be relevant to operation with diodes for whichnL \\gg 10^{12}cm-2. The theory may also describe certain types of \"LSA mode\" operation."
"In two-dimensional bulk GaAs devices, each small segment of a high-field domain can be considered to move normal to its front, with a velocity equal to that of a one-dimensional domain having the same domain potential. Using this simple model, an equation describing the domain shape in two-dimensional samples was obtained. When edge nucleation effects are taken into account, the solution of the equation provides a good explanation for most of the domain motions observed experimentally in various samples of non-uniform shape. The experimental observations were made using a resistive probe. The probe experiments enable one to visualize how domains behave in devices with sudden or gradual changes in width, with sharp or gradual bends, and with multiple terminals. In an Appendix, the simple model of two-dimensional domains is justified using a perturbation theory."
"The electrical characteristics of n-channel depletion-type and p-channel enhancement-type space-charge-limited tetrodes are presented. The devices are derived from the MOSFET structure and are fabricated on nearly intrinsic silicon substrates with very small channel lengths. In both structures, the current flowing between drain and source can be modulated by either of two high-impedance control terminals. The dominant conduction mechanism is space-charge-limited current flow, and the observed current-voltage characteristics of each device follow the Mott and Gurney relationship at high current levels."
"Heterojunction transistors are described consisting of n ZnSe epitaxially deposited on Ge base-collector junctions. The low-frequency common-emitter current gain is analyzed in terms of the injection efficiency and base transport factor. The injection efficiency is limited by interface recombination and capture-tunneling components in the emitter current, and the transport factor by low base lifetimes resulting from lattice and thermal mismatches involved with heterojunctions. Experimentally, the gain is constant at low injection levels and varies as a fractional power of the current at higher levels. The gain improves with decreased base widths and higher fields. Increasing the emitter resistivity reduces the capture-tunneling component in the emitter current, and increases the gain. Relatively small temperature dependence is observed, with β decreasing slightly at lower temperatures."
"The operation of a field-effect device is described in terms of the total charge in the channel region. The analysis is primarily developed for the small-signal operation for which the charge control equations are linear and have constant coefficients. The complete expressions for the small signal admittance parameters are obtained in both the linear and the pinch-off regions leading directly to equivalent circuits. It is believed that the charge control approach not only simplifies the mathematics involved, but provides new insights into device operation as well."
"The tunistor is a new mechanically resonant device which utilizes piezoelectric film transducers and a free-free flexural mode of resonance. Monolithic silicon tunistors have been demonstrated at frequencies up to 500 kHz with Qs to several thousand and temperature coefficients of frequency of 40 ppm/°C or less. Frequencies to several MHz should be feasible, and extensional modes should permit the frequency range to be increased even further. Metal tunistors which are compatible with hybrid microcircuits have been demonstrated down to several hundred Hz, and may be made relatively immune to external vibration. This paper describes the results obtained to date, and the technique used to fabricate tunistors."
"The direct Current flow in two simple device structures used for crossed-field, traveling-wave devices is analyzed, and some properties of the flow which can affect the RF performance are studied in detail. The results show nonuniform flow to be significant only in localized regions, which can be made small by a proper choice of electrode and sample geometry. Approximate formulas are derived for estimating the important flow parameters of interest in specific applications. As an example, the effect of nonuniform flow on the acoustic amplifier is estimated. The deflection and refraction of a shear-wave acoustic beam in InSb at 77°K is found to be negligible, but the gain is reduced appreciably for large µB0. Considerations entering into device design, such as heat sinking and the provision of an RF circuit, are also discussed with regard to an optimum choice of electrode configuration for a rectangular device."
"Bobbin-type air core coils have been designed and experimentally evaluated for astigmatic properties in line scan operation over deflection angles of ± 20°. The approximate design technique is successful in specifying the proper operating focal distance when this is comparable to the coil length. Line fields in excess of 20 000 spot diameters have been measured using a 10 kV beam having a 5 × 10-3radian convergence half-angle."
"An attempt has been made to obtain an accurate analytical solution to the equation of motion of an electron in a periodic electrostatic field. It has been shown that the equation is of the inhomogeneous Mathieu type. The general solution has been obtained and the effect of various parameters is discussed. It is hoped that this solution will find applications in many problems of particle dynamics."
"This paper describes the basic theory underlying calculations of the thermal behavior of helix-type slow wave circuits used in high power traveling-wave tubes. Typically, the helix is supported by means of three ceramic rods in a metal shell with the helix brazed to the rods. At the highest power levels the support rods are also brazed to the tube shell. The results of calculations on specific structures are presented which show the use of different support rod and helix materials, of beam interception, and of brazing the support rods to the shell. Of particular interest is the conclusion that the temperature difference between the hottest and coldest parts of the helix can be significantly larger than the temperature drop across the support rods when using high thermal conductivity ceramic materials brazed to the tube shell."
"This paper extends the basic theory of the thermal behavior or helix-type slow wave circuits described in Part I [1] to show the effect of scaling to higher frequencies. The differences in the scaling laws which result from the alternative assumptions of constant beam voltage or constant beam perveance are discussed, and a simplified formulation permitting the thermal behavior to be described in terms of universal curves is presented."
"A new and unexpected concept of TWT circuit modification which results in high basic beam and depressed collector efficiencies is described. The test results which are presented disclose that 50 percent depressed collector efficiency has been achieved over a 10 per cent bandwidth, and that maxima of 42 and 52 percent, respectively, of beam and depressed collector efficiency have been measured at spot frequencies. The tube which produced these results contained a single continuous helix tapered at the output end so that the phase velocity of the fundamental circuit wave was increased."
"Experimental results of impedance measurements on a long-base, gold-doped silicon diode show a substantial inductive effect. Various terminal characteristics are given and discussed with respect to possible contributing mechanisms."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Different types of solid state sensors demand different basic properties of the semiconductor materials from which they are made. The best transistor material is not necessarily the best material for a certain sensor. One must choose a semiconductor for a particular sensor on the basis of its fundamental properties, such as energy band structure. For example, piezoresistance sensors are made of silicon or germanium mainly because a large effect occurs only in semiconductors, such as these, having complex band edge structures. On the other hand, an intrinsic infrared photon detector requires an energy gap Egcorresponding to the longest wavelength λmto be detected, [Eg(eV)=1/λm(µm)] as well as a direct gap. Compatibility with integrated circuitry may sometimes be a consideration also. A review is given of the materials requirements of effects and devices useful in solid state sensing, and of the present state of development of semiconductors important for sensor applications. Materials discussed include Si, Ge, III-V compounds, II-VI compounds, IV-VI compounds, and others. Problems and prospects for future development are indicated."
"This is a review of the Josephson effect in superconductors, with emphasis on the electrical properties of Josephson junctions and their application to devices and measurement techniques."
"This paper presents a new and potentially simple method of producing a frequency shift proportional to sensed acceleration in a passive microwave device. Magnetostriction effects in microwave ferrite rods are employed to convert an applied stress (acceleration) to a shift in resonant frequency. Equations for the ferrite effective permeability are derived in terms of the internal field component. Experimental verification was obtained by placing the resonant cavity on a rotatable test stand and using the earth's gravitational field as the accelerating field 0 to 1 g being applied to the device. A SHF signal generator excites the cavity, while a spectrum analyzer and digital frequency counter monitor the resonant frequency. Correction was made for spurious frequency shifts due to lead component movements. A net, non-linear frequency shift characterized by the value +1.064 kHz per gravity was obtained. Agreement as to sign and general magnitude of theory and experiment was encouraging. Magnesium-manganese ferrites have small magnetostriction coefficients, yet even the frequency shifts with these ferrites were easily detectable. This effect or application is certainly worthy of additional interest and exploration."
"A new type of strain sensor has been demonstrated in the laboratory. The basic device is a p-n heterojunction diode that is fabricated by vacuum evaporation techniques directly onto a flexible substrate. Its two important properties are 1) its mechanical input characteristics are determined by the flexible substrate used in fabricating the heterojunction and 2) it functions as a low-output-impedance voltage source modulated by the substrate surface strain. The heterojunction combination that has been most commonly used is CdSe on Se. Typical devices exhibit a voltage/strain sensitivity of 500 volts per unit strain, with a differential resistance of 100 ohms, when biased at 5 mA. This corresponds to a \"gauge factor\" of 1000 for the diode strain sensor. Thus far, the substrates used have ranged in mechanical properties from 2-mil-thick plastic to 40 mil microscope slides but the most useful substrate appears to be anodized Al. This device is still under active experimental study. Thus the characteristics cited in this paper are preliminary in nature, and represent the current research status of this strain sensor."
"The purpose of this paper is to briefly review the concepts proposed to explain the piezojunction effect and to describe the techniques employed in its application. Several experimental transducers which have been constructed and evaluated are described."
"A diffused strain-gauge transducer has been developed for application in either a load cell or differential pressure configuration. The diffused strain elements eliminate the need for bonding material and insure transmission of the applied load to the sensing elements, One unique feature of the transducer is its ability to provide an electrical signal which is proportional to temperature as well as pressure. Other advantages include large output signals, high impedance, small hysteresis, and small temperature dependence. Also described is an electronic converter which provides a nominal 4-20 mA output signal over the operating temperature range."
"A piezoresistive bridge and integrated circuit amplifier can be made in the same silicon cantilever. The purpose of the amplifier is to linearize as well as amplify the output."
"The solid-state digital transducer represents a new standard in precision pressure transduction for the next generation of airborne sensors. The pressure transducer produces pulse train outputs as a measure of pressure by developing strains in a silicon diaphragm which incorporates piezoresistive sensing elements. These elements are distributed resistance-capacitance (RC) networks which are diffused into a diaphragm surface as the control elements of phase shift oscillators. By this approach, a digital (frequency) signal generated at the source can be transmitted without noise and distance limitations and the need for precision analog to digital conversion is eliminated. The device exhibits advantages in the areas of reliability, accuracy, size and cost over present day analog devices. The solid-state digital pressure transducer is being developed to meet the requirements of supersonic and subsonic air data applications when coupled with a high-performance air data computer. This application requires low hysteresis with repeatability and stability which are the main features of the solid-state pressure transducer. Other possible applications are FM data acquisition systems and industrial robots."
"A novel approach is described for fabricating high resolution silicon photodiode arrays whereby virtually none of the irradiated array area is lost for interelement isolation or lead contacting requirements. Element isolation is achieved by biasing a p-v-n diode so that the depletion layer reaches a pattern of grooves etched into the side opposite the radiation. Experiments illustrating the concept feasibility on a two element array are presented as well as preliminary results on a 7×7 array having elements on centers separated by 0.013 cm."
"The properties of the alloy semiconductor Hg1-xCdxTe and its application as an infrared detector material are reviewed. The selection of this alloy system as an infrared detector material is discussed. Bulk and epitaxial crystal growth techniques are described and representative electrical data presented which show the free carrier concentration to be in the 1014-1015cm-8range. The flexibility of this ternary system is then discussed relative to the compositional dependence of the energy gap. Photoconductive response data are presented for detectors having response peaks of 4-20 microns over the temperature range 15°-300°K. The expression Eg= 1.6(x - 0.134) + 0.1335(0.435 - x)(T/100 -1) 40° < T < 240°K 0.15 < x < 0.35 is shown to represent the compositional and temperature dependence of the energy gap within the specified limits."
"The performance of mercury cadmium telluride detectors in the 1-2 micron spectral region has been predicted from basic material parameters. Photovoltaic devices should be characterized by specific responsivities of 1 A/W for a 1000 ohm load when transit time limited to less than 20 ns. Photoconductive detectors made from n-type material should have radiative lifetimes of 1 ms. The feasibility of high performance 1-2 micron (Hg, Cd)Te detectors has been demonstrated experimentally. Deep junction devices operating at room temperature without bias have been fabricated by impurity indiffusion. Detectivities at 1.75 microns approached 1010cm.Hz1/2/W with open-circuit responsivities of approximately 500 V/W. In addition, 1.5 micron detectors have been fabricated from p-type, 25 Ω.cm material. With no bias at room temperature, these detectors showed D* λ>1010cm.Hz/12/W, open-circuit responsivities in excess of 103V/W, and response times on the order of microseconds. These preliminary results indicate that detectors fabricated from the pseudobinary alloy of (Hg, Cd)Te are well suited for high speed, near infrared photodetection in which room temperature operation is required."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An experimental investigation of the problem of magnetically compressing a perveance0.54 \\times 10^{-6}A/V3/2beam is reported. The feasibility of magnetic compression is demonstrated by passing this beam, compressed in area by a factor of 1000, through a drift tube 0.014 inch in diameter and 1 inch long with 95 percent transmission. The success of the magnetic-compression technique rests on the hitherto unsuspected ability of the beam to damp out undulations and to lose its thermal structure within a relatively short distance. A semiempirical theory from which the field required to maintain the compressed beam can be calculated is also presented."
"Pulsed operation of germanium IMPATT diodes has produced oscillations from 10 MHz to 12 GHz, with efficiencies exceeding 40 percent for frequencies between 2 and 3 GHz. Recorded waveforms show that IMPATT oscillations are required to initiate the lower frequency high-efficiency modes. The diodes are epitaxial diffused junction n-p-p+mesa structures, with depletion widths ∼ 5 microns and breakdown voltages ∼ 60 volts. Typical diode area is2 \\times 10^{-4}cm2. Static I-V curves, obtained with circuit conditions which do not permit any oscillations, exhibit positive incremental resistance. The usual IMPATT mode would be expected to be between 6 and 12 GHz. Operation at frequencies below the IMPATT frequency requires circuit conditions suitable for IMPATT oscillations to be present to initiate the lower frequency, higher efficiency mode. This mode is characterized by a sudden decrease in diode voltage and a simultaneous increase in current, similar to that reported for silicon devices [1]. Reproducible current and Voltage waveforms have been recorded for four distinctly different low-frequency modes of operation which result only from changes in the ac circuit seen by the diode."
"Any transistor exposed to transient gamma radiation will produce a large transient photocurrent output pulse unless the circuit is hardened or protected against this effect. The hardening technique described in this paper consists of adding a reverse-biased junction between the collector and the base of a transistor, producing a photocurrent which cancels or compensates for the radiation-induced current. Both computer and experimental results show a significant hardening achieved by this method which is applicable to microcircuit systems as well as to discrete component systems."
"GaAs avalanche diodes are observed to operate at frequencies considerably lower than those of Si or Ge diodes with similar doping profiles and dc characteristics. This observed behavior and the analysis shown in this paper enable us to evaluate an approximate hole saturation velocity in GaAs. Small signal impedances and Q's of GaAs avalanche diodes with breakdown voltages of 17, 36, and 58 are calculated based on the approximated hole saturation velocity of2 \\times 10^{6}cm/s. The model assumes an abrupt p+-n junction, e.g., zinc diffusion on n-type material, and a realistic electric field in the space-charge region."
"A computer-aided design of a Si avalanche photodiode is presented. As an example, the design of the boron diffused photodiode with a desired time constant is carried out. The choice of an area of an active region is not affected by a diffusion condition but primarily by a substrate impurity concentration. For a very high speed response a moderate substrate impurity concentration must be selected. For a longer time constant than about 0.1 ns an increasing area of an active region is acceptable with a decreasing substrate impurity concentration. In a lightly doped substrate, a uniform multiplication of an active region cannot occur. Using the usual diffusion technique the acceptable highest resistivity of a substrate is about 1-2 Ω.cm. The capacitance of the guard ring occupies a considerable part in a total capacitance. Calculated results are in good agreement with experimental results."
"It is shown that the attainment of LSA oscillations in epitaxial layers of GaAs does not rely on operation of the layers in small primary resonant circuits. Restrictions on circuit dimensions have thus been relaxed and LSA oscillations obtained in large scale microwave cavities. Layers of thickness 9-12.5 microns have been operated at frequencies from 26.5-40 GHz, the oscillations being tuned over this band by a conventional short-circuit plunger. The frequency of LSA oscillation is shown to be determined entirely by the natural circuit frequency. The tuning characteristics of the oscillations in various waveguide circuits are described and some general circuit features emerge which are of importance for a tunable LSA source. In particular it is noted that in some circuits a localized and therefore fixed frequency resonance occurs. It is also noted that LSA oscillations cannot occur if circuit Q is insufficiently high. The work has been carried out on a pulse basis to avoid thermal effects, and most of the experiments described have been carried out using unencapsulated devices. The maximum efficiency observed in these experiments was 4 percent."
"The nonlinear operating characteristics of the avalanche transit-time oscillator are studied by means of Fourier-series representation. For optimum operation, the oscillator must be designed such that start-oscillation conditions are satisfied simultaneously at the first and the second harmonic of the desired oscillation frequency. Under those conditions the oscillation frequency does not depend on the dc bias current; the signal level increases smoothly with bias current. For large signals, the diode exhibits negative resistance for frequencies substantially below the avalanche frequency; the oscillation frequency therefore may be below the avalanche frequency corresponding to the dc bias current required for large-signal operation. A condition for attaining large-signal operation is that the product of drift-zone capacitance and total load resistance must be small compared to the oscillation period; this condition also yields small starting currents. The output power at the oscillation frequency is obtained explicitly in terms of diode and external circuit parameters. The maximum attainable output power is limited by parasitic series resistance and by permissible RF voltage swing as compared to dc bias voltage. The best power-impedance product is obtained by choosing the transit angle equal to 0.74 π. In practice, it may be advantageous to choose a smaller value for the transit angle, in order that the tuning condition for the second harmonic may be more easily satisfied. The dc-to-RF conversion efficiency in principle is linearly proportional to the dc current density; the maximum efficiency again is limited by parasitic series resistance and by permissible RF voltage swing."
"Bipolar transistors can be used to increase the driving capabilities of complementary MOS transistors while retaining the low power dissipation feature. The fabrication of n-p-n bipolar transistors is compatible with the fabrication of the complementary MOS transistors in a monolithic structure. Common collector n-p-n transistors can be fabricated using a diffused n+source-drain region as emitter, a diffused p-isolation region as base and an n-substrate as collector with a hfegreater than 100. Lateral n-p-n transistors can be fabricated using a diffused n+source-drain region as emitter and collector, and p-isolation region as base with a hfegreater than 10."
"The minimum noise factor of a field-effect transistor has been computed at high frequencies on the basis of the thermal noise of the real parts of the equivalent circuit. A treatment of the intrinsic FET is followed by a consideration of the influence of feedback, parasitic output impedance and parasitic impedance in series with the source on the noise factor. Moreover, the difference between common-gate and common-source configuration has been considered. For frequencies smaller than the gain-bandwidth product fgbthe factorF_{\\min} - 1varies linearly with the frequency, whereas at higher frequencies this factor varies with f2. The computed results are compared with measurements on both JFETs and MOSFETs in the frequency range 100-1500 MHz at different conditions of operation. The agreement is rather good. For the JFET the value ofF_{\\min}(f_{gb}) \\approx 2.5; for the MOSFET somewhat higher values are found due to the presence of substrate depletion effects."
"This bibliography covers the years 1967 and 1968. It is a continuation of the field-effect transistor bibliography printed in the IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, Vol. ED-14, pp. 710-717, October 1967, covering the years from 1939-1966, and 28 references for 1967. For the sake of completeness, the aforementioned 28 references have been included in the present bibliography."
"Double-injection p-i-n diodes containing appropriate trapping centers exhibit extremely light sensitive space charge limited current characteristics. Small variations in the i-region space charge induced by low light levels results in lalge changes in the forward current. The detectivity D* of typical Zn-doped devices is approximately 1013."
"Experiments on the propagation of microwave power through InSb in a transverse dc magnetic field demonstrate the feasibility of low-loss propagation. The results correlate well with theoretical predictions."
"A new semiconductor plasma wave mode that can propagate with very little attenuation at frequencies smaller than the plasma collision frequency is described. The wave propagates at right angles to a dc magnetic field and may be used for modulation of lasers or for tunable filters in the microwave /millimeter wave region."
"A four-layer monolithic semiconductor device is considered as a combination of p-n-p and an n-p-n transistor in order to derive more tangible rational approximate admittance parameters. One example of an external connection of such a device is evaluated."
"The stability in an avalanche transistor is shown to depend in a very simple way on emitter-base voltage and on collector current. This dependence is quite general, since it is common to transistors of various types and structures (n-p-n, p-n-p, Ge, Si, planar, micro alloy diffused, mesa and drift); moreover the stability conditions show that the punch-through hypothesis is not essential to explain recently observed spontaneous oscillations in avalanche transistors with open emitters. Furthermore, a very simple equivalent circuit is given, which proves to be useful in describing the principal characteristic of avalanche oscillation."
"The dependence of calculated static space-charge-induced negative resistance, in avalanching silicon diodes, upon the form of the ionization rate function is investigated. It is shown that the conversion efficiency calculated using a commonly employed function for the ionization rate is greatly overestimated. It is concluded that the mechanism of static space-charge-induced negative resistance is not the origin of high efficiency modes of oscillation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The maximum potential of the high-power crossed-field devices has been restricted because of the presence of instability in these devices without any RF drive. The experimental investigation of the crossed-field instability as found from various tubes is briefly reviewed. It is believed that this instability is due to interaction of the slow cyclotron wave with the fast forward circuit wave. The theoretical work presented here refers to the interaction of both the slow and fast cyclotron waves with either of the circuit waves. The tuning characteristics of the interacting (oscillating) frequency due to slight changes in beam velocity resulting from changes in sole-to-anode voltage or magnetic field are derived. It is found that there is a good correlation between the theoretical and experimental results only for the case of interaction of the slow cyclotron wave with the fast forward circuit wave. For other interactions the tuning characteristics have opposite signs. In order to achieve a stable and less noisy operation of the device it is necessary to avoid the interaction of the cyclotron modes with the circuit wave. This limits the usable bandwidth which is plotted for different operating parameters. The electronic efficiency depending upon these operating parameters is also discussed. The problems in the gun design are reviewed. It is estimated that the conventional Kino gun may be used without any loss in bandwidth and efficiency up to frequencies in L band provided design procedures outlined in the paper are followed. For higher frequencies one has to use modified guns unless a reduction in bandwidth and efficiency can be tolerated."
"Nonreentrant injected-beam crossed-field amplifiers usually employ a thin laminar beam positioned well above the sole electrode. In operation, the beam is gradually bunched by a phase-focusing action. This paper describes the analysis and demonstration of such an amplifier, with an important difference: the electrons of the beam have random cycloidal trajectories extending to the sole instead of following the usual linear paths, Rapid and effective bunching is accomplished by collecting antiphase electrons on the sole. Experimental results are presented to show that the approach is useful for high current beams. For example, an output power of 600 watts was obtained at 10 dB gain from an 800 mA beam. The advantages and disadvantages of the cycloidal motion are discussed. The results of computations are given to show the desirable characteristics attainable; for example, a design for an amplifier with a cycloiding beam requires only 35 percent of the interaction length of a laminar-beam type for the same computed power output, gain and efficiency at the same cathode voltage."
"This paper introduces a new type of cathode-ray tube with a crossed-field electron gun which produces an electron beam in a region where a nonuniform magnetic field and an electric field cross perpendicularly. The new configuration gives increased freedom in the design of crossed-field guns. As a result, a long, directly heated cathode can be readily applied to a gun structure which makes high perveance and instant operation possible with much improved cathode heating efficiency. The new gun provides ion trap action by virtue of a magnetic field which separates ions from electrons due to the difference in their masses. A new type of cathode-ray tube using this gun not only demonstrates these features but also requires relatively low operational voltages for beam acceleration and control electrodes. The paper includes an analysis of electron motion in a crossed field with a nonuniform magnetic field. It also shows practical configuration of electrodes and current characteristics of the gun."
"A theoretical investigation of the influence of a spatially varying drift velocity on the perturbations in magnetically focused electron beams is presented. The wave propagation on such beams, focused by infinite magnetic fields, is studied under the small-wave assumption. The dispersion relation for slow waves is derived and solved for different transversal boundary conditions. Two sets of infinitely many propagating modes are found in a beam with small velocity shear. In a beam with sufficiently large velocity shear only two eigenfunctions exist. Since it is not possible to match the two eigenfunctions on arbitrary longitudinal boundary conditions, additional solutions (which cannot be written in form of a plane wave) must exist. The excitation of perturbations by ideal grids is solved by introducing the Laplace transform analysis. Additional solutions are ascertained which lead to a spatial decay of the perturbations according to a power law z-α. This damping, arising from the spatially varying drift velocity, is similar to the Landau damping in electron beams with velocity distribution. Such damping effects are of great practical importance in conjunction with noise reduction in traveling-wave tubes."
"A simple method of calculating effects of various boundaries around the helix on the dispersion relation and the interaction impedance is presented. The analytical technique is based on the use of equivalent circuit parameters derived from rigorous field analyses. The main advantage of this method is that effects of various perturbing objects (dielectrics, shields, etc.) can be calculated independently, regardless of the model of the unperturbed system. Equivalent circuit parameters are obtained for helices with several different forms of perturbing boundaries, including wedge-shaped dielectric rods, conducting boundaries, longitudinally conducting wires and fins, and combinations of these. The method of analysis is versatile so that the dispersion relation for any one particular form of the helix may be calculated from known characteristics of another using only three sets of universal curves."
"The electric field distribution from a surface wave interdigital transducer is investigated. Expressions for the various spatial harmonics and the capacitance of a transducer applied on an anisotropic, small-coupling propagation medium are derived. Experiments are consistent with the calculations."
"Nonreciprocal microwave propagation at room temperature in a waveguide which contains of a thin slab n-InSb has been demonstrated by the construction of an isolator, a three-port circulator, and a variable power divider, all operating at K-band frequencies. A forward loss and an isolation of 3 and 15 dB, respectively, was observed for the isolator; the forward and backward losses between adjacent ports of the circulator were 3 and 20 dB, respectively, and the power ratio of the divider could be varied from 1 to 10 for a given direction of the magnetic field. Transmission losses of about 3 dB were present in the forward direction and in each case, all but 1 dB of these were shown to be due to reflections resulting from impedance mismatch."
"A simple transmission line model is applied to the contact region between metal and diffusion layer in planar devices. Taking into account the sheet resistance of the diffusion layer and an ohmic specific contact resistance between metal and semiconductor the theoretical current distribution across the contact is calculated and compared with the results obtained with a model suggested by Kennedy and Murley. Experimental data are given that confirm the validity of the transmission line model."
"FM noise in a cavity-controlled Gunn oscillator is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. The susceptance of a GaAs Gunn diode fluctuates following velocity fluctuations of high field domains. This results in FM noise. The fluctuations of the velocity are considered to be due mainly to those of carrier concentration fluctuations. Measured FM noise is in good agreement with the model, verifying that fluctuations of carrier concentration result in FM noise in the oscillator. When the quality factor Qexof the resonant cavity used becomes large, the FM noise characteristic deviates from the theoretical one based on the fluctuations of carrier concentration. The fluctuations of the voltage across the diode in the resonant cavity also influence the domain dynamics and hence the diode susceptance. These seem to be causes of the deviation."
"The small-signal equivalent circuits for a p-n junction at equilibrium and the MOS capacitor in the inversion range are derived from the general transmission line model. Detailed calculations are made to obtain the semiconductor admittance as a function of frequency for a gold-doped n-type silicon substrate. The transmission-line model provides the desired distributed time constant observed in experimental data of admittance versus frequency. A simple model is given to illustrate how the low-frequency junction capacitance depends on the position of the deep level recombination center in the band gap and the ratio of the hole and electron emission rates. Experimental results on gold-doped silicon junctions are analyzed in terms of the theoretical model, considering effects of this ratio, the effects of surface channels, and the effect of a nonuniform spatial variation of the gold impurity."
"The large-signal transient behavior of transistors must be considered as nonlinear phenomena. In this paper, the nonlinearity of the transient behavior of transistors in the active region are considered, and the charge control method is extended to include this nonlinearity. Using a one-dimensional homogeneous-base transistor model, the current variation of small-signal time constants in the charge control concept are analyzed in terms of emitter efficiency, surface recombination, and generated field in the base region. From the results of the small signal analysis, the large-signal time constants have been defined as a function of injection ratio. From the charge control equation founded on the large-signal time constants, the rise time is calculated including the current variations of time constants and voltage variation of junction capacitance. The results of the analysis are also verified by experimental measurements."
"The small-signal differential equations describing the intrinsic high-frequency characteristics of MOS transistors are derived under three basic modes of signal application: gate excitation, substrate excitation, and combined gate-substrate excitation. These equations are shown to be analogous to those of a double RC transmission line having a uniformly distributed common resistance but two separate capacitances distributed nonuniformly. High-frequency device admittances are calculated in terms of those of the analog RC transmission line using the method of \"piecewise\" uniformity for the capacitance distributions. Useful expressions are derived for the various Y-parameters which are explicitly related to the more readily measurable low-frequency input capacitance and transconductance parameters which, in turn, are related to the basic device physical parameters. The admittance expressions clearly indicate the influence of the substrate resistivity both on the forward transfer admittance magnitudes at low and high frequencies and on the input conductance at high frequencies. The intrinsic Y-parameters are combined with the associated extrinsic RC networks and presented in the form of equivalent circuits. Results of UHF admittance measurements on representative n-channel devices are given which support the overall validity of the proposed equivalent circuit models."
"A mathematical model is presented which describes the interaction of electrons and phonons in one-dimensional piezo-electric semiconductors. The essential features of the model considered are taken from the theory of Yamashita and Nakamura with the inclusion of both spatial and time variations. Numerical solutions of the basic equations show that the model results in damped current oscillations and a current which persists for a time after the voltage is turned off. A simplified model, which restricts the growth of the phonon density, is shown to result in undamped square wave current oscillations."
"This note presents a simple physical argument which demonstrates the importance of relativistic electron bunching interactions between rotating electrons and an RF electric field in the plane of rotation, normal to a dc magnetic field. A magnitude comparison between the relativistic angular bunching and the well-known longitudinal bunching due to the transverse RF magnetic field shows that the close-to-cutoff operation of a number of recent cyclotron-frequency transverse-wave experiments is due solely to the relativistic effect."
"A technique has been devised for observing very rapid periodic changes in the match of a microwave component. The method has been used to follow the change of pulsed magnetron resonant frequency in the preoscillation region as the voltage pulse is increased from zero towards threshold. The results are in reasonable agreement with those predicted by a simple theoretical model."
"This paper will present experimental results of a one-dimensional self-scanned optical transducer. Self-scanning is accomplished by the motion of an acoustic domain through a one-cm-long bar of single-crystal CdS. Attached to this bar is a nine-element photoconducting CdS light sensor. When illuminated, the sensors provide a current bypass around the traveling domain, resulting in an output current which is a function of illumination. Megabit-per-second transfer speeds are obtainable."
"An experimental technique for measuring the two parameters i0and n of the diode equationi=i_{0}[\\exp (qV/nkT)-1]has been developed. The technique consists of determining n from the ratio of two average currents resulting from two sine waves being impressed-across the diode. Then the value of n is used to determine an amplitude of sine wave to relate i0to the average current through a simple multiple. The values of n and i0obtained by this method were compared with the same quantities obtained from the slope and intercept of a log i versus v plot. Standard deviation between methods of measuring n was 0.028. Standard deviation between methods of measuring log i0was 0.01."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"For the purpose of recording coherent infrared signals, a material is needed which is properly sensitive and which has the necessary resolution. The red thermochromic compound cuprous mercuric iodide (Cu2HgI4) has these attributes. Using a paint made with Cu2HgI4and a silicon varnish, an infrared hologram has been recorded with a CO2laser at 10.6 µm. The hologram was photographically reduced in size and was reconstructed in the visible."
"Highly sensitive InAs photovoltaic diode arrays have been developed for solid-state infrared image sensor applications. The array dimensions are fifty 5 × 7 mil diode elements, spaced 10 mils apart center-to-center, in a 2 × 25 staggered line array. One of the key problems was the non-stoichiometric surface encountered during the planar fabrication process, and therefore, it was necessary to remove such surface layers for sensitive InAs sensor arrays. The V-I characteristics of the sensor diodes as a function of the surface treatments will be shown."
"A monolithic photosensitive array has been developed for readout of digital patterns stored in holographic optical memories. To achieve large capacity, fast readout, and high optical sensitivity the photosensor array is word-organized with 256 photocells arranged in a 16 words × 16 bits-per-word configuration. The individual photocell consists of a silicon P+N-N+photodiode as a sensor and a pair of p-channel metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors as switching elements. The photodiodes have a common cathode. Their anodes are connected to the source electrodes of the MOS devices. The gate electrodes of the MOS devices in a photocell are used as a pair of complementary address lines to select a word, whereas the drain electrodes represent digit lines. This configuration has been realized with a simple, reliable, and inexpensive process using low-temperature doped silicon oxide diffusions."
"Self-radiant or illuminated infrared objects can be made visible by an image unconverter--a device in which the infrared interacts parametrically with an optically nonlinear material with a strong laser pump beam (1--3). We will discuss the three-dimensional nature, resolution, location, magnification and aberrations of images produced by such a device. These properties have been demonstrated in the laboratory. A 16 mm film transparency was illuminated by the output of continuously-pumped, repetitively Q-switched Nd:YAG laser. The light scattered by this object was mixed within a 1.2 cm cube of KDP with a 1.064 micron pump beam derived from the same laser. The 5320 Å upconverted object is clearly visible to the eye. Photographs of it have a resolution of 300 × 200 lines and 850 object line-pairs per inch, which is comparable with the infrared image."
"Efficiency degradation and excessive second harmonic power content frequently beset the performance of TWT's operating over an octave bandwidth. These difficulties can be surmounted upon application of a velocity-shift technique. Introduction of a circuit phase velocity-shift at intermediate levels of beam modulation provides effective means for substantial reduction (10 to 15 dB) in harmonic power content at tube saturation. More importantly, a considerable efficiency enhancement (by nearly a factor of two) is experienced over the entire band with the added benefit of notable improvement in BWO stability."
"The design and performance of a PPM focused TWT which has produced over 500 watts of CW power across the octave frequency band from 5.2 to 10.4 GHz is presented. This performance represents an advance of about 3 dB in the state-of-the-art microwave power generation in octave bandwidth TWT's. A helix interaction circuit is used to obtain bandwidth operation. This, together with the rugged mechanical design of the TWT, make it suited for use in Airborne ECM equipment. It is focused with an axially magnetized integral pole piece PPM focusing using Alnico 8 magnets. The configuration of the focusing structure has been modified from the conventional in order to facilitate removal of heat from the helix. Cooling of the TWT can be accomplished with either forced air, circulated liquid, or conduction to the mounting plate."
"A new helix configuration is used which reduces the phase velocity dispersion of the helix at lower frequencies. Dispersion shaping is accomplished with axial slots in the external helix shield, so that the conduction in the shield becomes anisotropic. This offers the advantage that large bandwidth operation becomes available in the low frequency region of the helix, where the interaction is much stronger. It is then possible to achieve high efficiency for octave bandwidth tubes. Very high efficiencies are achievable when methods of velocity resynchronization, such as a velocity taper or a voltage jump, are used also."
"A TWT that provides 1 to 3 kW of CW power over the frequency band of 7.7 to 10.0 GHz has been developed. The chief design feature of this tube is the exceptionally wide bandwidth obtained from a coupled cavity type RF circuit. Other design features are long life expectancy and excellent overdrive characteristics."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the current status of our program aimed toward the development of a Ku-band tube capable of providing 200 KW of peak power at a duty cycle of .015. This tube utilizes periodic permanent magnet focusing and weighs less than 30 pounds. Aside from the state-of-the-art achievement in peak and average power out for this type device, other major features are the gridded electron gun, a saturated gain, of 60 dB, and a depressed collector for efficiency enhancement. The tube operates at a cathode voltage of-80 kV and utilizes a post-acceleration anode for achieving both a high area convergence ratio and reliable high voltage operation. The major design and operating parameters will be discussed. In addition, the characteristics of protective devices required for reliable operation of this tube will be presented."
"A new bipolar integrated circuit structure has been fabricated which compares very favorably to MOS structures and other low power bipolar structures in terms of fabrication simplicity and performance. The new structure is basically a modified isolated lateral transistor and requires only three photolithographic masking operations for its entire fabrication."
"A new bipolar integrated circuit structure in which the conventional isolation diffusion is replaced by a diffusion performed at the same time as the base has been proposed (1). Such Base Diffusion Isolation (BDI) transistors without buried collectors have been built in 3µ thick, 0.6Ω2-cm, arsenic doped epitaxial layers on 10Ω-cm boron doped substrates. They require only four masking operations to first level metallization, i.e. they are of about the same complexity as p-channel IGFET circuits."
"High performance integrated ECL gates with stage delays in the nanosecond and subnanosecond regions have been fabricated with conventional and collector diffused isolation (CDI) methods (1). These two fabrication techniques are compared on the basis of resulting circuit performance, circuit density, and laboratory yields."
"This paper discusses a reliable, multilevel, digital switching matrix, including a brief explanation of the system application. This circuit is an array of crosspoints arranged to form a 2 × 2 switching matrix. Each crosspoint is bidirectional and includes selection and holding logic. High reliability was the primary design goal for this complex circuit."
"This paper describes a novel structure of \"p-fingers\" in high-speed monolithic switching circuits. The p-fingers improve the switching speed, the saturation characteristic, and the statistical distribution of the speed parameter. The experiments for evaluating monolithic circuits with various p-finger configurations are discussed. Both the saturation characteristic and the switching speed are functions of the separation between the p-finger and the base. Considering the speed trade-off between the number of p-fingers, around the base and the stray capacitance due to the excess p-fingers, we conclude that the best p-finger configuration is the one in which two p-fingers were diffused on both sides of the base."
"For the first time high power and high efficiency LSA has been obtained with thick epitaxial GaAs. This GaAs was grown with a constant-temperature, solution-growth method where a temperature gradient between the substrate and a source material causes the material transport. Due to the steady-state condition a good doping profile can be obtained. Electron concentration from 4×1014to 2×1015have been accomplished and mobility is typically 7,500 cm2/V-s. The doping profiles have been investigated with a new Laser probe-method developed by E. F. Johnson at Cornell University and will be reported."
"The phenomenon of domain propagatipn in n-GaAs has been studied by several authors who have digitally simulated a distributed model for the bulk material. These simulations entail the determinatin of electric field and carrier distributions in one-dimensional samples from continuity and transport expressions and the Poisson equation. As a complement to this technique, a need exists for a lumped device model to serve as a tool in the design of circuits incorporating these elements."
"So far most of the work on GaAs bulk devices seems to have been concentrated on a configuration of bare GaAs with two ohmic contacts, which is essentially based on a one-dimensional effect. The purpose of this paper is to introduce new physical phenomena, electrical characteristics and device performances of a dielectric-surface-load GaAs bulk device. Theory and experimental results are given, which are based on a two-dimensional effect and exhibit unique functions."
"Both avalanche (IMPATT) and GaAs devices have been investigated for electronically tuned oscillators at C-, X-, and Ku-band. Models for each type of device have been formulated, and excellent experimental agreement obtained with the computer simulations as far as output power, bandwidth, and detail of the power-frequency characteristic. This paper will discuss device equivalent circuits for each type of device and present experimental data to both substantiate the model and establish element values. This is the first time that equivalent circuits for these devices have been verified by wide-band electronic tuning. With 6 dB of power loss from the optimum device performance in waveguide circuits, bandwidths of 2 GHz at X-band have been obtained with avalanche devices. Under identical conditions, 5 GHz of bandwidth at X-band have been obtained with bulk GaAs devices. To further establish the frequency characteristics of these devices, identical devices have been operated in X- and Ku-band circuits. Element values for both of the device equivalent circuits have thus been verified from 7 to 18 GHz as a function of doping concentrations and device geometry."
"We have demonstrated a new type of transferred electron effect amplifier diode through computer simulation and experiment. The new GaAs diode is subcritically doped and has a cathode which limits the injection of carriers into the diode. In subcritically-doped amplifier diodes with ohmic contacts, excess carrier injection into the n-layer creates a power absorbing low field region near the cathode. Furthermore, the excess carrier injection causes the negative conductance to decrease rapidly with increasing rf drive and to disappear completely at a relatively low power level."
"The MNOS (metal-nitride-oxide-semiconductor) memory transistor is similar in geometry and fabrication technique to standard MOS (metal-oxide-semiconductor) devices, except for the gate insulator, which is a two layer structure of silicon dioxide nearest the silicon and silicon nitride on top of the silicon dioxide. Donor-type defect states, or traps, exist at or near the interface between these two insulators, and the states may be charged and discharged by the application of electric fields to the insulators. The amount of charge in the traps influences the surface potential of the silicon, and can therefore be used to alter the threshold voltage of a transistor fabricated with this double insulator structure."
"This paper describes an MNS device that performs the functions of both light detection and memory. It is based on the previously described variable, threshold MNS FET (1). It Will be shown, that under the proper conditions the rate at which the FET gate is charged with a writing pulse of given amplitude depends upon the intensity of the illumination incident on the device. Therefore, in an array of such devices selective illumination of certain regions during the writing cycle will implement charge storage, while in the nonilluminated area writing will be inhibited. Thus this behavior is immediately applicable to image and character storage, and can provide a direct optical input to a memory array."
"Recent advances in silicon nitride deposition techniques have led to the metal-silicon nitride-silicon dioxide-slilicon (MNOS) integrated circuit technology as an alternative and supplement for the existing MOS technology. Applications of MNOS field effect transistors have been proposed for both logic circuits (as an alternative for stable MOS transistors) and non-volatile memory arrays. The MNOS transistor for logic circuit applications combines the low surface state density of the thermal oxide (300 -- 500 Å) -- silicon interface with the passivation properties and high dielectric constant of the silicon nitride layer (500 -- 700 Å). On the other hand the same basic transistor structure with a thin thermal oxide (∼50 Å) has recently been shown to exhibit hysteresis behavior of turn on voltage as a function of applied gate voltage, resulting from charge storage at the silicon nitride-silicon dioxide interface. The storage function associated with the hysteresis characteristic leads to the potential application of variable turn on voltage MNOS transistors in random access and alterable read only semiconductor memories."
"Gate shorts caused by electrical breakdown of the gate oxide are a major yield and reliability problem for MOS transistors and integrated circuits. Generally, diodes or diffused resistors with breakdown voltages of about 50 V are used to protect the gate from high voltage transients or discharges."
"Electrically programmable MOS transistor read only memory (ROM) cells have been constructed using low current threshold chromium-chromium oxide film memory elements. The low current threshold of less than 10 milliamperes is attributed to electronmigration accelerated by high power density normal to the surface at a constriction in the film. Current interruption times of less than 100 microsec and typical which is adequate for efficient programming of ROM. Many physical aspects related to these memory elements and failure mechanisms of films were studied during the Read Only Memory program (1)."
"An experimental 40 × 100 dc gas discharge TV panel was described last year at the SID symposium at Los Angeles. A new 100 × 100 picture-element panel is under study in which more attention is given to the uniformity of the discharge characteristics to achieve a better gray scale. The electronic circuits are further integrated both for uniformity and reliability reasons. The cell density is 20 per inch. A new technology to build the panels, where the housing is built up of metal with a glass window plate, is used."
"A new glow discharge display tube is described for presenting in-line alphanumeric characters, which gives a brighter and clearer display than presently available tubes. It is based on a novel cathode construction, whereby the cathode is positioned at the base of a recess in a glass surface. The negative glow on a cathode which has been recessed in this manner is bright and well-defined. Even at current densities which are more than adequate for display purposes, sputtered material from the cathode is trapped within the recess and does not blacken a closely-spaced viewing window but on the other hand maintains stable characteristics. The tube, thus, has a long operational life, and brightnesses in excess of 600 foot-lamberts are readily available."
"Companion papers by Weston and Hall of the Mullard Research Laboratories and by de Boer of the Philips Research Laboratories, Eindhoven, discuss new dc gas discharge displays, including those with recessed cathodes and with resistive coated anode wire. Simultaneously with this work, the authors and their colleagues in both laboratories are studying the address and drive circuit requirements of these panels and are developing systems for displays both with and without inherent storage."
"An all glass, flat, 17,000 element digital display panel with interent memory has been developed. The panel utilizes a matrix array of light emitting gas discharges which can be selectively turned on and off. The panels are very similar in principle of operation to that described by Bitzer and Slot-tow (1), but incorporate a number of changes which make them more suitable for a practical display panel. Present panels have an active area of 4 by 4 inches, with a resolution of 33 lines per inch. Panel thickness is 1/2 inch. Except for the conducting electrodes, the device is made entirely of glass. The design permits scaling up to larger size panels with presently available glass fabrication techniques."
"In response to a sustaining signal impressed across a Plasma Display Panel, a cell in an \"on\" state exhibits a sequence of pulse discharges that occur once in each half-cycle when the cell voltage meets the Townsend breakdown condition. Experiments with Plasma Display Panels, and also, earlier observations On larger insulated gas discharge cells have shown that the firing times are precisely defined in phase. We suggest that this phase regularity is maintained by a mechanism which relates the intensity of a pulsed discharge to the slope of the exciting voltage at the time of the discharge. A small perturbation in the firing time of a discharge, therefore, changes the intensity of that discharge, The corresponding change in accumulated charge on the cell wall then changes the firing time of the next discharge in the sequence in a way that reduces the original perturbation. In the succeeding discharges the perturbation diminishes to zero exponentially. The analysis, presented in this paper, shows that the magnitude of the charge-slope relation, and the wave form of the sustaining voltage combine to determine the stability and the relaxation time of the process. In particular it shows that the perturbation can be effectively damped out in several cycles--a condition frequently observed. The talk will be illustrated by photographs of oscillograms which show different relaxation times in the approach to equilibrium."
"The Plasma Display Panel displays and stores digital information on an array of bistable gas discharge cells. Cells in one state emit light during each of a sequence of pulse discharges while cells in the second state emit no light. It has, therefore, been appropriate to designate these states as \"on\" and off.\" Similarly, it has been appropriate to designate the processes of changing these states as \"writing\" and \"erasing.\""
"This paper describes the construction and operation of a numeric line display which employs a capacitively coupled plasma (1). The flat display panel consists of a gas, normally a mixture of noble and/or molecular gases, encapsulated within a glass structure in a six character configuration with each character formed by seven segment bars."
"This paper describes a new Ku-Band product which is a state-of-the-art size reduction in 12- 18 GHz Ultra-Low-Noise Traveling Wave Amplifiers. This single-reversal-permanent-magnet focused unit weighs 6.5 pounds with integral power supply--slightly more than one-third the size and weight of equivalent noise present-day permanent-magnet focused traveling wave amplifiers."
"These papers describe a line of 100 mW low-noise amplifiers for S--, C--, X--, and Ku-band and a low-noise, 6 watt X-band TWT all designed for long life. There is a need for high dynamic range, low-noise preamplifiers, capable of amplification with low-intermodulation, cross-modulation, AM-PM conversion, and minimal large signal capturing effects. This need can be met by the new 100 mW amplifiers described in the first part of the paper."
"The timely development of four multi-band low noise TWT amplifiers covering 0.5 to 40 GHz coinciding with the development of wide-band components such as double-band antennas, YIG filters and balanced mixers has provided increasing use of these amplifiers in ultra wide-band applications such as surveillance receivers. In addition, the extension of millimeter low noise TWT amplifiers with lower noise figure and higher power level has been achieved. These amplifiers, uniform field focused with integral solid state power supplies, represent state of the art performance."
"Traveling wave tubes for satelite communication are required to operate with high efficiency, yet with low phase distortion in order to obtain a large channel capacity in the satellite repeater. A general efficiency and phase distortion analysis for traveling wave tubes was therefore carried out, using a large signal computer program. The phase shift, the AM/PM conversion factor and the efficiency with and without collector depression at saturation and at reduced drive levels have been evaluated for a large range of tube parameters."
"The generation of noise for use in jamming applications is a matter of concern to component and system designers. Recently, noise generation schemes have been publicized which exhibit various RF bandwidths, depending on the operating frequency. An investigation has been underway at USAECOM to determine methods of generating broadband noise which are applicable throughout the microwave range as well as applicable to high power noise devices. Linear beam traveling-wave tubes with either internal or external feedback were the noise generation schemes studied. A noise bandwidth of 6:1 was achieved with one generation scheme. Measurement techniques and test results including expected efficiency are discussed. Special design and construction considerations are presented for the tube designer."
"Evaporative cooling techniques, which include nucleate boiling, subcooled boiling, and heat pipes, have been known for quite some time. As recent advances in system power increasingly emphasize economic and physical limitations of conventional methods, evaporative systems are attracting growing interest. Within their limitations, all evaporative systems are significantly more efficient than conventional methods. This paper analyzes quantitatively and compares the limitations of the two conventional and three evaporative methods in terms of economic and reliability considerations and describes current applications of evaporative cooling techniques."
"The objective of this program was to develop a highly efficient electron gun cathode for a traveling-wave tube that would provide full emission and the resulting full rf power within 4 seconds of turn-on. The electron gun also had to be highly reliable and able to withstand missile launch and flight environments."
"Measurements of CW parametric fluorescence in ADP and KDP will be reported in which both signal and idler frequencies were in the visible region of the spectrum. The pump beam was at 2573 Å and was obtained from an internal SHG laser (1). Parametric fluorescence was observed over the range 4000 Å to 7000 Å in ADP and from 4400 Å to 6000 Å in KDP by turning the crystals over approximately 56°C from -11°C to +45°C. Phase-matching was at 90° to the optic axis and the pump power was 25 mwatts."
"Plastic Q-Switch for ruby lasers is a plastic version of the bleachable dye Q-switch, that has been developed by the authors for a couple of years. By solidification, the defects of the liquid bleachable dye Q-switch are rejected and it is reported Plastic Q-Switch (PQS) is the most efficient passive Q-Switch (1). PQS is very stable against UV radiation. This report is on the recent results of PQS especially on reducing the damage induced in PQS by the laser beam. Preparation and material for PQS will also be discussed."
"The technique developed by Kurtz and Perry (1) to examine frequency doubling in powders was used to survey approximately 100 organic dye powders for second harmonic generation. Six new optically nonlinear materials were found. One of these dyes, a member of the family of coumarin dyes, 7-diethylamino-4-methylcoumarin, appears to be at least as good a frequency doubler as LiNbO3. In addition, its resistance to surface damage is much higher than that of LiNbO3and so it may prove to be a useful material."
"A device has been built which is capable of gating light on and off on the picosecond time scale. The gate is built in much the same fashion as traditional Kerr cells, the difference lying in the use of powerful optical pulses rather than electrical pulses to induce a birefringence in various liquids. In the experiment, powerful light pulses from a mode-locked Nd:glass laser, ∼5 psec in duration (wavelength 1.06µ), are used to induce a birefringence in a number of liquids including CSµ, nitrobenzene, chlorobenzene, dichloroethane and others. The transmission of the gate as a function of time is probed by means of 0.53µ green light pulses derived from the 1.06µ pulses by second harmonic generation. With CS2the transmission curve has a width of 8 psec; the peak transmission is 10% and the extinction ratio is 200. With nitrobenzene the curve has an exponentially falling tail on one side. The associated decay time is 32± 6 psec. Since 32 psec is a time characteristic of molecular reorientation times, this observation provides direct support for the long held belief that orientational effects dominate light induced refractive index changes in nitrobenzene."
"The paper reports experimental results on a new type of electronically tunable optical filter (1). The filter makes use of collinear acoustic-optic diffraction in an optically anisotropic media. By changing the driving acoustic frequency, the band of optical frequencies which the filter will pass may be changed. A LiNbO3acoustic-optic filter with a pass band approximately 2 Å wide, which is tunable from 750 Å to 5500 Å by changing the acoustic frequency from 750 Mc to 1050 Mc, has been demonstrated. Peak transmission at band center is about 30 percent and average rejection outside the pass band is about 50 db."
"Transverse thermal gradients occurring in optically pumped solid state laser rods result in both stress birefringence and bifocusing (1,2,3). In practice, these phenomena cause large polarization losses and also limit the power obtainable in the TEM00mode."
"Linear krypton and xenon flashlamps (6 mm bore, 3 in. arc) having various fill pressures between 450 Torr and 4 atm. have been operated in a single elliptical gold-plated pump cavity to excite a Nd:YAG laser rod (0.25 in. dia., 3 in. long). Laser operation as a function of lamp fill, for electrical input energies ranging from 2 to 40 J (120 µs pulse duration) and for pulse repetition rates from single-shot to 20 Hz, will be described. The results will be analyzed, and the results and analysis will be compared to those of Oliver and Barnes (1). Our findings complement those of Oliver and Barnes; these two studies show that, for each of the two different experimental arrangements and regimes of operation, Kr lamps are generally superior to Xe lamps for pumping Nd:YAG except at high current densities."
"Deep depletion in a metal-oxide-semiconductor system is analogous to reverse bias in a p-n junction, but it is a transient state. Consequently, deep depletion capacitance versus bias measurements are usually made with a bridge and pulsed bias. It will be shown in this paper that this transient capacitance-voltage measurement can be achieved very simply and directly by measuring the MOS current response to a linear ramp voltage under sweep conditions such that both inversion layer response and surface state response are inhibited, typically 104volts/sec. This MOS current response is proportional to the differential capacitance and carries information on the doping density, flat band voltage, and avalanche breakdown, as well as minority carrier generation effects."
"Recent studies indicate that the spatial extent of the space-charge region in semiconductors can be determined from oblique incidence electroreflect-ance measurements with elliptically polarized light. The ellipsometric method yields experimental inforomation about the optical modulation that cannot be obtained from electroreflectance measurements at normal incidence or with linearly polarized light. When an electric field is applied normal to the reflecting surface of a semiconductor, the optical properties at photon energies in the vicinity of an absorption threshold are perturbed slightly due to the Franz-Keldysh effect. Three independent experimental quantities may be obtained from Series of ellipsometric measurements at a given photon energy. This information is then used to calculate the perturbations in the real and imaginary parts of the optical dielectric constant and, most importantly, the spatial extent of these perturbations. By using an electric field profile based on a numerical solution of Poisson's equation, the effective depth of the space-charge region is obtained. Previously, etectroreflectance experiments have been analyzed by assuming that the electric field is uniform over the penetration depth of the light, or by independently determining the depth of the space-charge region trom field-effect conductivity measurements. At photon energies in the vicinity of the fundamental absorption edges in typical semiconductors, space-charge, depths of up to 0.1µ may be determined with this method. Experimental results on thin semiconducting films deposited on dielectric substrates will be discussed."
"The surface recombination-generation current in planar devices has already been extensively studied especially with gated diode structures. This current exhibits a peak as a function of the gate voltage, whose height in particular has been discussed by Rosier, and by Fitzgerald and Grove."
"This paper reports the measurement of an electron current through the offset gate of an MOS tetrode. This device has two stacked gates between the source and the drain. The control gate, located adjacent to the source, is deposited over a 1000 Å insulator. The offset gate is between the control gate and the drain and is deposited on top of a micron insulator. In the 1969 Circuits Conference in Philadelphia, H. G. Dill, et al, demonstrated that electrons could be injected over the, Schottky barrier between silicon and the offset gate insulator. They showed that injection followed by trapping at an oxide-nitride interface coUld be used to make an electrically alterable read-only memory."
"Research on germanium field emission cathodes made by an electrical breakdown process and the observation of these cathodes using a scanning electron microscope has shown that a long life cold surface with a short pulse of laser energy. A pulse of photons having the proper energy density heats a shallow area to the melting point, following which the Ge solidifies in a conical shape. These conical protuberances are of micron size and the small radius, of curvature at the apex produces a field enhancement factor on the order of 100. Field emission current can be drawn upon application of a sufficiently high electric field (\\simeq 3 \\times 10^{5}V/cm)."
"Thin-film vacuum evaporated diodes have been fabricated which exhibit excellent rectification properties, including: (a) 70 volts reverse breakdown, (b) greater than 106rectification ratio over a range of 6 to 30 volts, and (c) 0.5 volt forward offset voltage. The diodes have a \"sandwich cell\" structure, and the rectification action occurs at a p-n heterojunction formed by a n-type CdSe layer deposited over a p-type Se layer. All of the evaporations are made on unheated substrates, with the Se being crystallized by post-evaporation heating prior to the deposition, of the CdSe. Arrays of 16 diodes with 100 mil2area each have, been fabricated with 100% yield and essentially identical I-V characteristics. Although this work is still in a preliminary stage, the results thus far indicate that these devices should be suitable for use in thin-film integrated circuits in combination with thin-film resistor and capacitor elements."
"A technique is described which makes possible the formation of isolated junction field effect transistors, NPN transistors and vertical PNP transistors in the same monolithic integrated circuit. PNP's with B = 50 and ft= 20 MHz, and N-channel JFET's with BVG-C= 60 V can be fabricated without compromising NPN performance."
"Vertical pnp transistors and standard LIC npn transistors were fabricated within the same substrate with a method compatible with planar technology in every aspect of the process. On the pnp transistors, ftof up to 100 MHz, hfeof 50 at 100 µA of I and LVCEOof 50 volts was measured, while the companion pnp transistors showed ftof 400 MHz, hfeof 250 at 100 µA of I and LVCEOof 70 volts. A monolithic amplifier circuit containing vertical pnp and npn transistors was made and evaluated. Its performance was compared to characteristics of the same circuit with lateral pnp transistors. The use of compatible vertical pnp transistors. The use of compatible vertical pnp transistors improved substantially the performance of the amplifier circuit."
"It is possible to build high performance PNP's NPN's, and N-channel epitaxial JFET's in dielectrically isolated material. The material is double poly type DI, made from P type substrates, into which N+buried layers are diffused in NPN islands. A N type epitaxial layer which is the top layer in the finished material, is deposited on the P substrate."
"The paper describes a newly developed fabrication technology for a monolithic linear power IC of new construction based on a level process in the epitaxial crystal growth on the silicon substrate. A power capability far beyond known in this field has been achieved. A typical example of the output power rating for an IC designed for use in a low frequency SEPP type power amplifier is 20 watts rms continuous service, and the total harmonic distortion content is less than 8% at 1 kHz. at 40 volts source voltage, with a circuit efficiency of 69%. (Saturated continuous output is 26 watts.)"
"\"Popcorn noise\" has been observed in integrated operational amplifiers and isolated to specific input transistors. These transistors have been studied in depth physically and electrically, and have been observed to have negative resistance regions in the reversed biased collector-base characteristic. These regions were studied by the methods of Chynoweth and MeKay (1) in the pre-breakdown region and Ricks and Pope in the post breakdown region (2). In all of the several hundred devices studied (obtained from three different vendors), negative resistance regions or multiple current levels were found to exist. Devices which do not exhibit \"popcorn noise\" do not possess these negative resistance regions. Further investigations have shown that localized light emission is observed emanating from within the vicinity of the collector-base depletion region when the transistor is biased into a negative resistance region of the volt-ampere characteristic. These localized plasmas were observed to be white or slightly yellow-white in color. The light emission occurs simultaneous with the observance of \"popcorn noise.\" These results are strongly suggestive that \"popcorn noise\" and microplasma noise are equivalent."
"In its simplest form, burst noise has a waveform of bistable levels similar to that of microplasma noise in p-n junctions. However, the amplitude of the noise pulse is generally much lower and the pulse width much larger than those of microplasma noise. Burst noise, when present, completely dominates the low-frequency noise power of a semiconductor device, causing it to become several orders of magnitude larger than that of a device free from this type of noise. Thus, burst noise can be a leading factor in determining the economics of low-noise transistor and operational amplifier fabrication."
"The use of GaAs with IR to visible converting phosphor"
"A PNPN latch is an attractive solution for incorporating memory functions in solid state displays, since it consumes power only in the \"on\" condition. Light-emitting diodes, incorporated into a four-layer PNPN latch, so that the memory and light-emitting device are an integral part of the same structure had been proposed (1). Recent work (2) resulted in a numeric display using a hybrid assembly of GaAsxP1-xlight-emitting diode (LED) sources and silicon monolithic I. C.'s are drivers. This paper deals with design of a array of latch type of memory elements for use with GaAsxP1-xLED's fabricated in silicon monolithic I.C. form."
"Differential radiography is arteriography in which electronic and optical methods are employed to display only the difference in information stored on two radiographs. Current practice in arteriography is to compare visually a radiograph made subsequent to the injection of a radiopaque dye with a radiograph taken from the same position but prior to the injection of the dye. The first radiograph contains structural information primarily whereas the second contains structural information plus the circulatory information made visible by the opaque dye. In differential radiography, the two radiographs are viewed and subtracted electronically--only the difference is displayed for the observer."
"An electro-optical scanner (AFRID) was built and tested to inspect X-radiographs of grenade fuzes. Presently, all fuzes are inspected by visual examination of the radiographs. High volume production imposes high loads on human inspectors for whom special controls and procedures are needed to reduce the effects of fatigue and hypnosis. The AFRID accepts the format in current inspection use. Each manually loaded 11 in. × 14 in. radiograph contains 100 fuze X-ray images in a 10 × 10 rectangular array. The machine automatically acquires and examines each image. It decides whether each fuze is to be accepted or rejected according to specified criteria. Indicator lamps and audible alarms indicate operational status, and a typewriter and film markers provide bookkeeping."
"Cooperative phenomena in nematic liquid crystals under electric fields have been the subject of numerous studies conducted in our laboratories over the past several years. A systematic study of the relationship between molecular structure and the electrical properties of nematic liquid crystals has recently led to the discovery that cooperative alignment of certain nematic \"host\" compounds by external electric fields can be used to orient \"guest\" pleochroic dye molecules molecules whose absorption spectrum is a function of their molecular orientation with respect to the polarization of the incident light). The purpose of the present work was the development of electronically-tuned filters based on this effect. Thus, it was possible to produce electronically tuned, monochromic, optical filters with a variety of colors by suitable choice of pleochroic dye. Electronic color switching was achieved using fields of the order of 10 KV/cm (dc through audio) at powers of 1 milliwatt/cm2with a variety of dye structures. A detailed study of the response and relaxation time of the effect was also conducted. Rise times of 1 to 5 msec and relaxation times of 30 to 200 msec were obtained."
"A novel, optical scanning device with applications to recording and display systems is described. This device makes use of the focusing properties of a traveling acoustic wave to convert a low-resolution input beam into a high-resolution output beam, both beams scanning linearly in synchronism with the velocity of the acoustic wave."
"Significant advances have recently been made in the state of the art of electrostatically focused klystrons (ESFK's). Digital computer design of the electrostatic focusing lens system has increased the electron beam transmission, with saturated rf drive, from approximately 70 to 93 percent. Higher gain-bandwidth products have been achieved with a five cavity, interaction circuit designed by a digital computer program which includes the effect of the dc lens fields on the rf bunching of the electron beam. Experimental verification has been made of the low noise performance of ESFK's and the absence of coherent ion noise which results from positive ion drainage by the focusing lenses."
"The effects of cavity voltage, phase, and drift length are studied numerically in the high power, multicavity klystron with the aid of a one-dimensional, relativistically correct large-signal computer code. Using the concept of Mihran's merit figure, optimum configurations are presented for the three and four cavity klystron. These designs exhibit a high degree of electron bunching and a small velocity spread at the location of the output gap. The results are applicable to klystrons with more than four cavities since the power extraction sections considered here may be preceded by several small-signal cavities."
"This paper will describe the development of a 500 kilowatt CW S-band klystron amplifier, designed for installation, on the 210 foot steerable antenna at the JPL/NASA deep space instrumentation facility at Goldstone, California. This tube is an improved version of the 450 kilowatt unit developed in 1967. Its features include 1-1/2 percent instantaneous bandwidth, 58 dB nominal gain and 53 percent nominal efficiency."
"A klystron amplifier yielding above 65 percent efficiency at the 100 kW power level at a frequency of 800 MHz will be described. The high efficiency is obtained by using a novel combination of second harmonic and fundamental frequency cavities in the buncher system."
"A narrowband, five cavity klystron has been designed and constructed in accordance with the high efficiency design principles established through use of a digital-computer klystron-simulation program. Detailed measurements of efficiency were made at 1393 MHz. These data are compared with computed results in order to reveal the factors that limit efficiency in klystrons."
"The objectives of this development were to stabilize the cloverleaf circuit against oscillations at its upper cut-off (π) frequency without degrading efficiency over its operating frequency band. The tube chosen for this stabilization effort was the VA-146 -- a cathode pulsed, 5 megawatt, cloverleaf Twystron with 10% bandwidth at C-Band. The mean and circuit parameters were used to calculate the total circuit Q required for stability at all values of beam voltage. A simple coupled resonant cavity scheme was found not to be sufficient to provide the required loss and frequency selectivity."
"One megawatt of CW power has been generated by a single X-band klystron. The tube utilizes an extended-interaction output cavity, a 0.9 micro-perveanee beam, and operates at 7840 MHz. The size and weight of the tube were minimized to facilitate direct mounting on rotating antennas."
"Lasers with outputs in the three primary colors are desirable for several applications, including color display and recording systems. It is at present not possible to efficiently achieve properly balanced three color outputs from a single laser with only one gas component. This paper reports on experiments including a parametric study on dc and rf inductively excited ion lasers operated with argon-krypton gas mixtures to obtain the required output color balance. With a 4 mm segmented graphite bore tube and dc currents of up to 50 A., 3 watts of write light was obtained: 1.6, 0.3, and 1.1 watts at 6471 Å (Kr.), 5145 Å, (Ar) and 4884 Å (Ar), respectively from an Ar-Kr mixture."
"Several reports on operation of ion lasers on the transitions between states in doubtedly ionized argon and krypton (Ar III and Kr III) leading to oscillation in the near ultraviolet have been given in the last three years (1-3). These reports deal with ultraviolet operation utilizing plasma tubes specifically designed to achieve high current densities. We have experimented with production models of argon and krypton ion lasers of several sizes to determine if useful ultraviolet performance may be obtained with them. Bore sizes, tube active discharge lengths, tube currents, and axial magnetic fields are typical of those used for visible ion laser operation. With these tubes and careful attention to internal cavity losses, lower thresholds than previously reported and useful ultraviolet output has been achieved."
"Results are presented of experiments including a parametric study on a laser operating with a mixture of He, Ne, and Cd, and lasing at both 6328 Å (Ne I) and 4416 Å (Cd II), The laser uses a d. c. discharge and uniform cadmium concentration is obtained by a cataphoresis technique (1). In experiments on a 2.5 mm bore tube, 1 meter long, it was found possible to obtain useful outputs in both the neon and cadmium lines simultaneously. Two factors are important in such operations: Normal optimum He-Ne laser operation is at lower He pressures than those optimum for He-Cd lasers, and secondly the He-Ne laser output normally saturates at lower discharge currents. However, it is found that at the higher wall temperature at which the He-Cd laser operates, optimum conditions for the He-Ne laser change (2) and are more compatible with those of He-Cd operation. Preliminary results with cadmium of natural isotopic abundance, indicate that an optimum He-Ne-Cd gas fill for this type of laser allows operation in three modes determined by the operating current: 1) Low current operation (25-35m A), characterized by 6328 Å output approximately 80% of that obtained with the laser tube containing He-Ne only, and well optimized for 6328 Å output, 2) High current operation (90 mA and above), characterized by 4416 Å output ap proximately 70% of that obtained with the laser tube containing He-Cd only and well optimized for 4416 Å output, and 3) Intermediate currents (40-80 mA), where both lines lase simultaneously. At equal power outputs, the 6328 Å and 4416 Å lines are 25% ard 20% respectively of optimum. Arbitrary ratios of red to blue can be obtained by variation of operating current. These results will be analyzed in terms of the discharge properties of the mixture and their effect on gain."
"Mode-locking of the CO2laser in the 10µm band by means of an intracavity internal loss modulator or an intracavity saturable gas absorber has been reported previously (1). In this paper, we report the first operation of the simultaneous self-locking of the beam-scanning type of longitudinal and transverse modes in a CO2laser."
"A CO2laser oscillator has been developed for use as a stable 10.6 micron source is a single video channel FM heterodyne communication system. The laser uses a sealed-off Brewster window discharge tube which is mounted in a stable, yet relatively light weight cavity structure. The transmitter laser is capable of 1.5 watts power output in a single transverse mode with single wavelength operation maintained over an indefinite period by use of a temperature control system for the cavity. The receiver local oscillator is identical except for a grating wavelength selector which reduces the available power to 0.8 watts."
"We report gain profile measurements in a rapidly flowing, electrically excited CO2--N2--He mixture. These gain measurements were made with the same apparatus that has produced 1100 watts when used as a Gas-Transport Laser oscillator. This novel experimental apparatus provides closed-cycle flow of the gas mixture at velocities up to 300 cm/second across a one-meter single-pass gain path. A treat exchanger in the flow circuit cools the gas mixture before it is returned to the gain measurement region."
"The dc characteristics of the lateral transistor have been studied in detail theoretically and experimemally. Base and collector currents were examined separately as functions of emitter-base bias. In this way, it was possible to obtain a clear understanding of the independence of current gain on factors such as geometry, high-level injection, carrier lifetimes, surface recombination, and emitter efficiency. By independently measuring the relevant physical parameters and inserting their values into the theoretical model, transistor characteristics were obtained which agreed closely with experiment."
"An investigation of the ultimate limit in transistor speed has revealed that thermal effects may place a limit on device speed. A mathematical model is presented and used to study the thermal characteristics of very small transistors. The model gives the three-dimensional time dependent temperature response at any point in the region of an active device dissipating power. The physical structure and actual region of power dissipation are taken into account in the model. In addition to predicting high values of thermal spreading resistance for small devices, the model has predicted several other interesting results. The heating effect caused by the power dissipation of small devices was found to be very localized and adjacent devices in an integrated circuit are essentially thermally isolated. For example, no longer can one consider the temperature to be the same in adjacent transistors of a differential pair. Furthermore, it was found that the thermal response of both silicon and germanium devices is much slower than the electrical response. All of these results have been substantiated with laboratory measurements on small high speed devices."
"A procedure for the design of neutron-hardened transistors has been developed, based on Hahn's NP vN transistor model. With this model, neutron effects in the emitter-base region and in the collector region can be distinguished and treated separately."
"One-dimensional transistors are well-understood today, and computer techniques for detailed analysis are available. This paper gives a contribution to the analysis of lateral effects, especially for transistors which are of neither ring-dot nor long narrow stripe geometry. The effects of distributed capacitance and base resistance on the small-signal behavior of the transistor are modeled by a two-dimensional leaky transmission line, with different RC constants in the active and passive base regions. Computer techniques are presented for solving this problem for arbitrary emitter and base contact geometries. The use of a boundary method, rather than the conventional grid method, is particularly attractive for complicated geometries and makes possible very short computation times (typically a few seconds). The calculated h-parameters are compared to experimental data for a high-frequency, double-diffused silicon transistor."
"Transistors and other circuit elements have been deposited in a single connected series of operations on flexible tapes of plastics and coated metal foil. The procedure is analogous to the exposure of successive frames in a movie camera, and has the ingredients of a continuous, high speed and high yield manufacturing process."
"Recently the thyristor has also been used in integrated circuits as a low power element, e.g., in flip flops as a switch and in oscillators as an active gain element. For those applications it is useful to predict the characteristic of the device as closely as possible. To date, little is known about the region of the negative differential resistance. This paper describes, a method for modelling the characteristics of planar thyristors with special emphasis on this region. This method is especially helpful since it eliminates costly empirical tests."
"A low noise silicon microwave transistor has been developed using ion-implantation technology. For reduction of the noise figure of microwave transistors, it is necessary to keep the base width small enough while maintaining the total base impurity above a certain limit. It has not been possible to meet this requirement with conventional double diffused structures because of the error function-like impurity profile and the undesirable emitter dip effect. The impurity profile of an ion-implanted base is more step-like and can be advantageously used for the base region of microwave transistors if the profile is not substantially disturbed by subsequent heat treatments. An arsenic-diffused and washed emitter method has been developed. An arsenic doped germano-silicate glass film which has a very fast etch rate was used as a diffusion source. Emitter dip free structures with arsenic surface concentrations in excess of 1.5 × 1020cm-3have been realized with this method."
"In a nonreentrant, cold cathode, self-modulated cross-field amplifier (DEMATRON), the beam is built up by secondary emission from successive impacts on the cathode. The buildup process poses a problem because acceleration of electrons into paths which intersect the cathode only occurs in an inherently phase-defocusing phase range, while complete buildup requires that an electron bunch remain in this phase range for at least 20 successive impacts. Then, when buildup is complete, the bunch must be shifted in phase by 180° before it can deliver useful power to the rf wave. In doing so it has to pass over an \"electron trap\" -- a phrase region in which the impact velocity on the cathode is so low that the secondary emission ratio is much less than unity, and the bunch tends to be reabsorbed."
"The use of a simple impedance transformer in conjunction with a modified long-Kino gun to significantly reduce the diocotron gain in the gun region of a crossed-field device is described. Provision for arbitrarily varying the entrance velocity to the interaction region making frequency modulation of the device possible. By changing the electric field in the transformer region, the electron trajectories for varying current densities may be optimized, allowing amplitude modulation of the device. The design of the transformer is simple and does not require computer design."
"The high efficiency and relatively low weight of CFA's have made this class of tubes attractive to the radar system designer. However, because questions about their noise characteristics and phase coherence have remained unanswered there has been a hesitancy to specify their use in the more sophisticated system, now being planned. In order to obtain definitive data about these important properties, a continuous-cathode, forward-wave CFA which is operated with a cutoff electrode was examined carefully for intra-spectral noise and phase coherence. The tube tested provides 100 kw of peak power for 100 MHz at L-band with an average power rating of 3 kW."
"Two areas of recent investigations have resulted in improved single-side band performance with tetrode power tubes. In one case two contracts were undertaken from the military services to upgrade tubes for use in existing communications equipment. Both programs had similar goals: to improve the performance of existing equipment without the need for modifying the equipment. This could only be accomplished by developing power tubes with improved intermodulation characteristics which would plug directly into the equipment. For a U.S. Army transmitter, tube third-order intermodulation products (IM3) were reduced from a level of --22 dg to a typical value of --33 db. The goal of the Navy contract is to develop a tube with an IM3 of less than -28 db (compared with--20 db for the tube presently used)."
"Microwave heating is now finding its way into the U.S. kitchen. One of the reasons cited for this is the fact that the cost of the magnetron has passed through the cost threshold. Several U. S. companies have worked on low cost designs with varying results. This paper deals with the design philosophy generated by Litton Industries in developing the family of highly reliable, low cost magnetrons for commercial and domestic use. This design philosophy established the electrical parameters and the key facets of construction to assure reliability together with low cost of materials and manufacturing."
"Passive ignitors for use in gas-type waveguide receiver protectors have been built using tritium as the active electron source. This design eliminates the conventional dc keepalive discharge used in TR tubes and results in a TR device with no external connections or power sources. Consequently, the design provides receiver protection from interfering radars whether the system is on or off, eliminating the mechanical shutter. The wideband noise of the conventional dc ignitor is also eliminated."
"Passive TR-limiters were developed for X and Ku-band using tritium foils as priming electron sources to lower breakdown power of the gas discharge TR tube. Single stage varactor limiters were mounted three quarters of a guide wavelength behind the primed gap to provide a voltage maximum at the gap. Breakdown power was, found to be only weakly dependent on pulse repetition rate (PRR) indicating that the net priming electron density provided by the tritium source was greater than the residual electron density from previous high power pulses. The effectiveness of tritium priming was demonstrated with a bellows mounted source which could be moved in and out of the TR tribe, Breakdown power varied as the square of the distance from the primed gap. Minimum breakdown power of the TR portion of the package was about 250 mW at a PRR of 150 PPS. This is a 10 dB improvement over the previously reported value (1). The corresponding leakage power from the TR-limitter package prior to TR breakdown did not exceed 20 mW. Spike leakage energy was less than 01 ergs over a temperature range of--55° to 125°C. Insertion loss was less than 0.8 dB."
"In the design of integrated circuits, the contacts are made smaller than the diffused semiconductor area. The reason for the smaller contact area is to avoid the contact of the metal to areas of opposite conductivity type to that of diffused area when misalignment occurs. Because aluminum is universally used as the interconnecting metal and the aluminum work function is comparable to that of silicon, an alloyed aluminum contact makes good ohmic connection with p-type silicon, but a leaky reverse junction with the n-type silicon. For n-channel MOS transistors, the situation is even worse because the alloyed aluminum in contact with p-type substrate would cause a short circuit."
"In MOS integrated circuits, active areas are distinguished from inactive areas by the difference in threshold voltage. This difference is usually achieved by using vastly different oxide thicknesses in the respective areas. A result of this practice is that: (a) photoengraving of thick oxide is necessary; (b) the surface of the wafer presents large steps in the oxide (1.5 µ typical). Where metallization runs across these steps weak spots can occur unless the shape of the step is carefully controlled or very thick metal used."
"Insulated gate field effect integrated circuits are economically attractive because of the number of functions possible per unit area and the relative simplicity of design and processing. In many applications, insulated gate field effect transistors (IGFET) with low (∼1 volt) and stable threshold voltages are required. Prior experience with conventional beam-lead technology (1) (platinum-silicide, titaniam, platinum, gold) in bipolar devices has demonstrated its high reliability. Expected high reliability combined with the economic advantages in mechanical handling, bonding, and compatibility with other technologies dictated the incorporation of beam-leads in IGFET circuits."
"A new structure and fabrication method of multi-layer interconnections have been developed. The feature of this method lies in the use of an anodic oxidation technique instead of the conventional metal etching in the formation of interconnection patterns."
"The yield and reliability of silicon integrated circuits are significantly increased by the application of a chemical vapor deposited phosphosilicate layer after first level metallization. These benefits are directly attributable to the physical and electronic properties of phosphosilicate films. A number of limitations of planar silicon devices, such as susceptibility of the metallization to scratches or corrosion effects, and the possibility of surface-related instability due to ion migration effects are overcome by this process. In multilevel metallized large-scale integrated circuit arrays, deposited phosphosilicate films are a very satisfactory dielectric between metal layers, providing the capability of reliable, low-resistance interconnections. Used as either passive films on single-scale metallized devices, or as the second dielectric layer in multilevel metallized devices, chemical vapor deposited phosphosilicate films have been found to possess a number of significant advantages compared to silicon dioxide films deposited from silane under similar conditions. Results of a comprehensive study of the properties of bipolar and MOS devices of various degrees of complexity, coated with phosphosilicate films, will be presented."
"Integrated circuits mounted on ceramic substrates must be protected from moisture and from mechanical damage by an encapsulation system which should have the same long term stability as the device itself. The procedures used for evaluating device stability - high temperature and high humidity exposure to time of median failure - have been used to evaluate the ability of coatings to protect devices and substrates from leakage currents due to water adsorption. Most of the data has been obtained on silicone resins and rubbers that were selected as the best materials for humidity protection after an initial evaluation of a number of coatings."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide a basic design theory for negative-resistance diodes microwave power amplification. The model is a shunt-loaded reflection amplifier. The analysis includes both quasi-linear mode and the locked-oscillator mode of operation."
"In an earlier paper the authors reported the experimental verification of an analytical model for the high-frequency, quenched-domain (circuit-controlled) mode of Gunn-effect devices. The application of this model to multiple-frequency operation will be reported accompanied by supporting experiments. It will be shown that these devices can be used for microwave amplification in a new manner harmonic generation and frequency downconversion and upconversion. The theoretical results include the effects of second harmonic and subharmonic signals on the quenched-domain mode and the effect of the nol product (carrier demity times crystal length) upon efficiency and operating characteristics."
"This paper will discuss recent theoretical results concerning multi-frequency operation of avalanche-diode oscillators. Both Read-type structures and the more practical p+nn+structures will be considered. The properties of such diodes for use in subharmonic and harmonic frequency generation will be presented. Our analysis assumes saturated drift velocities and the results obtained so far indicate that even though reasonable efficiencies (comparable to and greater than the normal IMPATT mode) can be predicted, these efficiencies are much lower than those which have been obtained in the high-efficiency (TRAPATT) mode. It is believed that these results will shed some further light on the multifrequency operation of IMPATT diodes under saturated velocity conditions and will give useful information concerning the buildup of the high-efficiency (TRAPATT) mode."
"High duty cycle and CW Gunn effect epitaxial devices are subject to premature failure due to avalanching induced by temperature gradients produced across the active layer. These temperature gradients are seen to effectively worsen existing doping gradients which initiate switching at a reduced bias level. Increases in average temperature are seen to vary the nominal breakdown field which in some cases has been seen to rise by a factor of two over the temperature range from 300 to 450°K."
"Gold doping is a well known method of improving the recovery characteristics of switching diodes and transistors, yet the detailed behavior of these important devices is not well known, due to the complicated trapping action of gold in silicon. The purpose of this paper is to give the results of an experimental and theoretical investigation of gold doped silicon p+n diodes, relating their circuit performance, particularly capacitance variation with frequency and bias, to the internal distributions of recombination rate, trapped charge, current and voltage."
"Extremely sharp Zener-like bulk characteristics, symmetrical and asymmetrical, have been obtained in fast-neutron-irradiated silicon. The volt-ampere characteristic consists of a high-resistivity (\"off\") Ohm's law region, breaking sharply into an essentially vertical (\"on\") region. The \"on\" region extends several orders of magnitude in current at constant voltage. The mechanism is not related to Zener breakdown (except in appearance); it is rather a trap-filling process, agreeing completely with a theoretical model proposed by M. A. Lampert (1956) for single injection in the presence of a discrete trap. These results were obtained at 77°K due to the necessity of biasing the thermodynamic Fermi level to the vicinity of the desired trap. Other traps are present, and efforts are presently under way to extend the mechanism to the range of room temperature. Limited success has been achieved."
"The voltage variable capacitor promises to be an ideal device for electronic tuning applications. For the best design, the capacitance ratio and the quality factor of the devices should be kept as high as possible over the required voltage range. Furthermore, applications requiring more than one diode generally necessitate that the diodes track each other over the useful operating voltage range. When a high capacitance ratio is desired, it is usually achieved by the formation of a hyper-abrupt junction with a retrograded doping profile on one side. The slope and the doping of the retrograded region as well as the thickness of the high resistivity epitaxial region are the critical parameters determining the device characteristics. A knowledge of the interdependence of these parameters is of fundamental importance for the optimization of the design. This paper describes the computer calculation done for the design of tuning diodes. A hyper-abrupt junction with a retrograded Gaussian profile is considered. The computation consists in establishing the doping profile across the wafer with given values of surface concentration, junction depth and epitaxial background doping. The applied voltage as a function of depletion width is determined and the corresponding junction capacitance evaluated. The quality factor as given by the series resistance is then calculated, taking into account the nonlinear variation of mobility with impurity distribution. The breakdown voltage is computed from the field intensity distribution across the junction and the corresponding impact ionization rate. Calculations are carried out over a wide range of device parameters. The various factors that should be considered for an ideal design are discussed."
"Aluminum n-type silicon Schottky barrier diodes which can be fabricated by a very simple process and exhibit near-ideal electricaI characteristics have recently been developed. In this paper, the processing and characteristics of such a Schottky barrier will be discussed. The I-V characteristics agree well with the theoretical thermionic emission model. The barrier height is determined from the saturation current, temperature dependence of forward current, and photoemission to be 0.69 ± 0.01 eV. Minority carrier injection from this Schottky barrier has been measured using a transistor structure with Al as emitter. Negligible minority carrier injection is found even up to high current levels. This is further confirmed by diode switching measurements. The low-frequency noise is very low and is comparable to the best p-n junctions and guard-ring Schottky barriers. This is particularly significant since it is the first time such good noise characteristics have been achieved for a Schottky barrier on n-Si without a guard ring. Excellent stability is found under life tests at elevated temperarures. These desirable features, coupled with the simple and economical processing which is completely compatible with present day integrated circuit technology, should make these Schottky barriers ideal in a variety of applications."
"In recent electronically scanned radar systems, pin diodes are used extensively as phase shifting elements. However, to obtain the proper range of dynamic impedance, a relatively large dc current is usually required for each diode. In a large array this control current is the source of numerous problems, caused by heat, weight and cost of driver circuitry. Following some experimental work originated by R. Tang, a new field effect switch has been developed which decreases the control current to a minimum and thus reduces the above-mentioned problems. This switch is fabricated in the following manner. The gate of the device is formed by the p+substrate material on which an n-type epitaxial channel layer is grown. Interleaving diffused source and drain bus bars pIaced with 23 micron spacing comprise the major current distribution network for the device. The channel conductance is then greatly increased by using a high resolution scanning electron microscope to expose the finely spaced interdigitated source and drain regions between adjacent bus bars. These regions are doped by means of phosphorus ion implantation to avoid lateral spread otherwise introduced by diffusion. The resultant source and drains are each one micron wide and about 10 microns long, while the center to center spacing is 3 microns. This extremely high channel conductance provided by the scanning electron microscope exposure and ion implantation doping allows the use of this device in a microwave phase shifting application. Characteristics of this device including microwave performance will be given."
"Hyperabrupt diodes are characterized by a rapid change in capacitance with reverse voltage, due to the widening of the depletion layer through a region of decreasing doping density. When specific requirements are placed on the C-V relationship, one finds it necessary to apply rigorous control in forming the impurity profile. This paper describes the fabrication of such a device by two techniques, diffusion and ion implantation, and shows the striking advantage of ion implantation in fabricating devices with reproducible C-V characteristics at a high yield."
"The band-gap pressure dependence of gallium antimonide tunnel diodes has been exploited in the development of new electromechanical sensors. The outstanding features of these devices are simplicity, very small size (< 1 mm), good resolution (∼0.3 mm Hg for a 1000Hz bandwidth) and wide dynamic range (∼60 db). The temperature sensitivity corresponds to about 25 mm Hg/°C but is readily reduced by conventional compensation techniques to the equivalent of about 1 mm Hg/°C or better. The present design is particularly attractive for biomedical applications for which special configurations have been developed."
"Almost all conventional potentiometers and manual switches employ mechanical contacts in some way or another and this very fact makes the reliability and performance of these components much poorer compared with the well developed solid-state devices, leading to poor over-all reliability of electronic system even with I.C. devices."
"Previous application of spatial filtering to integrated circuit photomask inspection used intensity filtering and took advantage of the grating effect of the periodic character of the photomask features. A stop filter of 0.8 mil diameter spots in a rectangular array with a spacing of 1.6 mils corresponding to the periodic distance in the mask was placed in the diffraction or Fourier transform plane. Aperiodic features were then detected."
"An improved method for photomask inspection employing spatial filtering is described. Previous techniques were not accurate enough for checking step and repeat photoplates over the field of the photomask. The technique described can measure pattern step and repeat by correlating it with a fringe pattern and using spatial filtering analyze the result. Results indicate a precision of about 0.1 mil over 1 cm field; the field should able to be extended to 5 cm with further experimental investigation."
"A new type of memory cell circuit is described. The circuit is unique in that four modes of operation are possible making it especially useful for communication systems, and it can be made in a very small size. The unit cell of the memory was assembled and tested using discrete components followed by a careful study of the integration of the circuit into a silicon substrate. A test of scanning electron microscope fabrication was carried out under computer control to draw the patterns for 50 × 60 µ cells. Some partially operating circuits were achieved."
"ELIPS is based on the use of an electron image tube principle to project large area (2\" dia.) ultra high resolution (1 micron) images from a patterned photocathode onto an electron sensitive resist layer thereby replacing the conventional photoresist optical procedures in integrated circuit fabrication (1)."
"An optical relay designed for the projection of television pictures onto large-area screens is described. The so-called Titus (1) tube is a variable transparency image tube utilizing the Pockels effect in a deuterated potassium-dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) single crystal plate cooled down to its Curie temperature."
"A prism fiber reading tube and a thin film electron-beam penetration printing tube, for fast fast facsimile have been developed. The prism fiber reading tube features a new type of prism-shaped glass fiber which makes direct contact reading possible. This newly-developed reading tube is capable of reading opaque original manuscript, a procedure not possible with an ordinary fiber optics tube. By electron scanning, a manuscript can be read at television scanning speeds. The resolution obtained is about 6 lines/mm and the light efficiency is about 5 times as high as that of a conventional flying-spot scanner using an F/1 lens with unity magnification."
"CRT devices, both for photorecording and real time display applications, can be improved in certain of their characteristics by utilizing a number of electron beams simultaneously modulated in the tube. A plurality of beams, when properly generated, focused and deflected, will display information with writing speed, video band-width and brightness generally improved by a factor related to the number of beams used."
"The flood beam in a direct view storage CRT must uniformly illuminate the storage surface. Variable persistence operation of the CRT also requires that the electron trajectory at the storage surface be within about 5 degrees from perpendicular. Thus, an initially diverging beam must be collimated near the screen."
"Almost all color picture tubes have screens composed of more than a million dots of phosphors, one third of which are green, another third blue, and the remaining third red. Each dot is accurately placed in relation to an aperture mask and one of three electron guns inside the tube. This is accomplished by optically exposing a photosensitive material containing phosphor through the shadow mask with a light source simulating the electron beam source. The exposed areas become insoluble and the screen is rinsed with water to remove the photosensitive material and phosphor from the remaining areas. This is repeated for each of the three color phosphors. Typically, exposure times are long, screens use less than one-third of the phosphor applied to them, and the phosphor is discarded or reprocessed."
"A new technique for printing phosphor screens of color picture tubes has been developed which has many advantages over the traditional phosphor printing methods. The technique consists of producing a beam of charged phosphor particles and causing the beam of particles to follow the same trajectories to the screen as those which the electrons will subsequently follow in the completed tube. This is possible because the trajectories of charged particles in electrostatic fields are independent of the charge to mass ratio. The technique is directly applicable to post deflection focusing tubes where the electron trajectories are not rectilinear due to the electric field between mask, screen, and the tube funnel."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"The results of work so far performed in the area of synchronization techniques have been promising. It was found that of the four techniques investigated, i.e., master-slave, bit stuffing, frequency averaging and independent atomic clocks, frequency averaging and independent atomic clocks might have application in a future field army communication network."
"This paper discusses concepts for a multifunction avionics system based on the use of accurate synchronixed clocks at each terminal of the system. An experimental program to identify technological barriers and aid in their resolution will be dascribed. This experimental activity involves developent and utilization of a facility known as the Time Ordered Techniques Experimental System (TOTES)."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"A brief biography of William Justin Fry is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents abstracts for the articles comprising the 1968 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium conference proceedings."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The essential element of this acoustic flow calorimeter for power transducers is a long lossy line that matches and absorbs the output of the transducer. The line consists of many small, tinned copper tubes, cast into a cylinder of lead. This cylinder is centered in a larger encasing copper tube through which cooling water flows. From water flow rate and difference of input and output temperatures, acoustic power is obtained. Calibration is effected by a heater element bonded to the outer tube. The assembly is in an evacuated chamber. A typical calorimeter for a 15-kHz transducer has an absorbent element 1.25 inch (3.2 cm) in diameter, and 5 feet (1.5 m) long. Results are quite consistent."
"The author describes a convenient method for analyzing the characteristics of an electroacoustic amplifier using root-locus techniques. This technique provides a quick and graphical description of the one-dimensional electroacoustic amplifier"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"A brief biography of Egon Alfred Hiedemann is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming conference described in this call for papers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"At a base station of a UHF mobile radio telephone system in a large city, many transmitters are used. In such a case it is not practical to use an individual antenna for each transmitter from the viewpoint of system economy and interference. Common use of one antenna for many radio-frequency channels is suitable and transmitter multiplexing devices should be used for this purpose. A transmitter multiplexer has been developed which can be used for multiplexing more than twelve 100-W transmitters in the 450-MHz band with a channel spacing of 150 kHz. The multiplexer consists of circulators, cavity resonators, and junction boxes. The principal features of this multiplexer are H101mode cavity resonators which are ultrastable with respect to the variation of environment conditions such as temperature and humidity. The resonators are temperature compensated to maintain the variation of resonant frequency within 5 kHz at the ambient temperature variation of 40°C. The voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) of the multiplexer, looking from the transmitter side, is less than 2.0 and the insertion loss is less than 3 dB at the operating frequency. Design objectives, over-all performance, and characteristics of cavity resonators and circulators are also presented."
"START (system of transportation applying rendezvous technology) is a side-by-side rendezvous technique designed to improve the collection and transfer of passengers in a rail-guided intercity transportation system. In operation, a nonstop express train provides service between cities, while frequent-stop local trains are used to provide coverage of metropolitan areas. The local trains link up with the express trains through a side-by-side rendezvous on parallel rendezvous tracks, and transfer of passengers and cargo takes place while both trains are in motion. The START concept offers the advantage that passengers and cargo can be transferred at many points along an intercity express route without severely affecting the average speed of the intercity system."
"Directed toward FCC Docket 16073 on air-ground telephone service by single sideband, a study has been made of a high channel density 450-MHz communication system employing 6 groups of 10 channels each in a 300-kHz band. To accomplish necessary tolerance to out-of-band transmitter radiation, all mobile stations need automatic power output control. Other important system features, such as privacy and first come, first serve from queue when all busy, result from the use of a common data channel. With the accomplishment of the necessary equipment and logical techniques, a communication system of much greater frequency utilization appears technically and economically feasible."
"This paper describes the original VHF mobile radio system in the Indiana and Michigan Electric (I&ME) Company and how it operated with standard squelch. It points out some of the problems which were encountered at the relatively low operating frequency in the 37-MHz region and goes on to show the solution for most of these problems by converting the entire system of 19 base stations and 300 mobile units from standard squelch to a tone coded squelch. The entire changeover was done in an economical manner and without disrupting operation of the original system while the conversion was being made. The benefits ensuing from this conversion are covered in detail."
"The use of walkie-talkie radios to supplement fixed wire interior communications systems on ships is discussed. Electrical and acoustical noise interference problems were studied on replenishment ships, and the use of FM at VHF together with noiseproofed acoustic transducers was found necessary for many operations and/or for men in certain locations. RF signal penetration tests showed VHF to be superior to HF for reliable communications between certain interior spaces and the weather decks. In some cases antennas with coaxial lead-ins had to be provided to maintain adequate communications. These and many other problems were found to exist when alternate interim solutions to a man-on-the-move communication (MOMCOM) problem were tried on the U.S.S. Mars (AFS-1). In addition to finding a workable interim system, many problems and some answers were uncovered that will lead to a better integrated MOMCOM system for future ships."
"Several human factors considerations in the design of command and control systems are viewed from the aspect of three common classes of human system participants: the sensors, the filters, and the decision makers. An attempt is made to demonstrate the effects of particular perceptual variables upon the performance of each of these classes of participants. Several suggestions are made, based on recent research findings, concerning techniques the system designer may incorporate to enhance the role performance of each of these participants. A plea is made for early analysis to define system goals and alternatives and to study in detail the interrelationships of critical elements, including the human components, before the design of the system is completed."
"Position location techniques based on propagation delay have been proposed previously. A narrow-band version of this technique involves the transmission of RF carrier, modulated by a single audio frequency. At a receiver, the audio phase is a measure of distance provided the propagation delay is less than one quarter cycle. The transmission medium introduces multipath distortion and the received signal consists of a set of signals, each an attenuated and delayed replica of the transmitted signal, having traversed a different path. When FM is employed, the phase of the demodulated composite is a nonlinear function of the parameters of the multipath structure of the channel. In this paper, this functional relationship is derived."
"A digital radio dispatch system for control of mobile forces offers improvements over some of the shortcomings of existing voice systems. The four functions involved in dispatching--- signaling, message, acknowledgment, and status---are described. Both the remote station and control center operations are described with emphasis placed on message format and timing. Polling controls the mobile tracsmissions for automatic acknowledgment status and other common messages. Such a system can assume the bulk of dispatch communications with the speed and security of digital communication while still retaining voice communication for emergency and special mobile-originated messages."
"There are two basic types of car location schemes. One uses time measurement and computes location by generalized triangulation; the other identifies location by proximity to one of a multitude of receivers or transmitters which have been permanently installed. The principal problem with the latter system is installation. By taking advantage of existing grids or networks of units, in this case police telephone call boxes, much of this installation expense may be reduced. How such a system could be installed in Washington, D.C., is described in detail. Features of the system are: 1) relatively low installation cost 2) low power units creating minimum spectrum waste 3) accuracy of ±¼ mile 4) usability by a multitude of services 5) simple inexpensive equipment requirements."
"Mobile teleprinters are looking increasingly attractive to vehicular communication system engineers, especially as automation enters the dispatching scene. A dot matrix page printer is described. The dot matrix approach enables the use of visual error correction since noise generally appears as miscellaneous extra or missing dots. The character remains recognizable. Although the operation of the printer mechanism was detailed, extensive field tests and optimum modulation selection had not yet been completed as of the symposium date. The dot matrix printer affords the capability of rough picture or map transmission as well as character information transmission."
"The availability of inexpensive computers makes more attractive than ever their use in command and control of public safety services. The general features of a computerized command and control system include: 1) rapid access to operational data 2) computer controlled displays 3) automatic recording of command and control transactions 4) automatic control of communications to field units. Problems in system design were discussed with special reference to the Los Angeles City Fire Department."
"The automatic mobile director and reporting system (AMDRS) was designed to provide continuous control of each field unit. Consisting of three major subsystems: control center, command computer, and field unit, AMDRS is intended to provide real-time control with a minimum radio-frequency spectrum usage. Both the control center and the field unit make use of visual displays. An automatic vehicle locator and director is included to furnish position information directly to a vehicle operator. All digital message functions are automatically handled by the computer including optimum unit selection. Among the advantages claimed for AMDRS are: 1) real-time command with a minimum of spectrum usage 2) instant direction without requiring the field unit operator to depend on maps or memory 3) a degree of privacy owing to digital communications 4) system flexibility allowing various degrees of implementation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Some of the effects of tropical forests (jungle) on the performance of VHF radios have been explored. To better understand average propagation effects, the dielectric constant and the conductivity of selected forests have been measured. The effect of forests on the gain and pattern of simple VHF antennas has been explored, as well as signal loss along a trail. Scattering of VHF radio waves by nearby trees has been found to be a significant factor affecting received signal strength at any given point down a forest trail. Comparisons between propagation inside and outside a forest have been made. The results of the measurements have been applied to a determination of the performance of vehicular radio sets. A new concept of effective range of VHF radios operated in a forest is presented; its performance criterion is word intelligibility."
"In railway radio systems and vehicular communications, a very important problem is that of maintaining stable communications at all locations, especially in tunnels and in spaces between buildings. A leaky coaxial cable having a new type of slot as a radiating element combining longitudinal slots with circumferential slots is described, and the desired radiation power or coupling loss can be easily designed by varying the dimensions of the slots and by selecting an appropriate pitch length. The results of the experimental studies at a frequency of 450 MHz are expected to give a satisfactory solution to this problem."
"For the effective and efficient utilization of mobile vehicles, a vehicle locator and tracking system is necessary. Possible users of the system include the police, municipal bus systems, taxicabs, utilities, and others. One often suggested approach employs a network of distributed sensors, which sense and identify vehicles in the immediate vicinity. The sensors which receive transmissions from the vehicles then pass the vehicle identity, together with the sensor identity, to a central facility via a relay link. For the relay link, message-loss probability and time-delay statistics have been evaluated as a function of message traffic offered. By utilizing the dual criteria for acceptable performance as one of low message-loss probability and small time delays, data requirements for uniform vehicular traffic have been obtained. An extension to nonuniform vehicular traffic is suggested. Engineering estimates of data rate requirements for different system configurations can be made by using the figures presented."
"Highway automation systems must be evolutionary and begin with present vehicles and highways. Development of a simple vehicle tracker as an optional extra on new vehicles to control braking and accelerating on presently controlled-access highways is a necessary first step. Once this device is prevalent, contains built-in self-test, and has engendered public confidence, then automatic steering can easily be added with minimal highway department assistance. This then would lead to a partially automatic highway, approximately ten years after introduction of the vehicle tracker. Finally, when the interim partially automatic system is proven, new highways could be of the completely automatic variety by inclusion of synchronous guidance; the previous vehicle tracker and partial automatic system would then become the first level backup system. Building of completely automatic highways might be anticipated about ten years after introduction of the partially automatic version. It is both economically as well as technically feasible to introduce automatic brake and acceleration control a few years from today for automobile driving on freeways, with complete automatic highways evolving over the years and finally coming to fruition, possibly in the 1990's."
"A signal-to-interference ratio for the transmission of scanned images and digital data in the dynamic multipath environment was derived in an earlier paper. The dynamic case depends upon a Doppler environment-signal parameter ratio, while the static result is independent of the signal structure. The dynamic case is asymptotic to, but always worse than, the static one. For a Doppler-signal ratio of less than 10 percent the dynamic signal-to-noise ratio is essentially equal to the static one. Most real systems today fall in this region. This indicates why certain simple multipath analyses in use today have been successful. The method of designing a signal to fall below the 10-percent value is indicated. Signal-to-noise ratio curves are provided for system design purposes. These results permit system analysis and tradeoff studies to be based on earth reflection coefficient distributions and aircraft or satellite operation envelopes."
"Summary form only given, as follows. IEEE Standard 184, \"IEEE Test Procdure for Frequency-Modulated Mobile Communications Receivers,\" has been completed after seven years of work by members of the G-VT Mobile Communications System Technical Committee. In February, 1962, the IRE Standards Committee requested that a review and updating of the then existent Standard 49 IRE 16.51 be undertaken by the Mobile Systems Committee TC 16.0. This review established a need for a complete revision, recognizing the limited scope of performance which the previous standard demonstrated. The more rigorous demands of spectrum utilization dictated a discipline of performance evaluation which would support the application of equipment designed to work in a densely populated spectrum environment. In addition, it was recognized that the users of mobile communication equipment had no uniform basis for comparing the performance of equipment procured to a general specification. It was also recognized that a standard which was system oriented would enable more accurate performance levels to be established. Another benefit, not so obvious, is the accumulation of a uniform set of definitions of terms peculiar to the mobile communications field. The G-VT Subcommittee (TC) 16.2 is anxious to have the benefit of demonstration by as many engineers in the vehicular radio field as possible and will welcome their comments and recommendations for future standards. This is particularly true of another G-VT oriented Standards Committee, G-EMC (TC) 27.7, which is working on a Method of Measurement of Spurious Emissions from Land-Mobile Communications Transmitters. Many of the same people are involved who were instrumental in developing Standard 184. The technical committee's next project will be a similar standard for transmitter measurements."
"This Test Procedure covers definition of terms, controlled test conditions, test apparatus, test methods, and data presentation, which form the basis for establishing performance criteria of mobile communication receivers designed to receive frequency-modulated waves in the frequency range from 25 to 1000 MHz. Specific limits are not included; however, reference values that are not limited by the state of the art are provided. Test conditions, apparatus, and methods are based on known instrumentation and measuring techniques and are not restricted to any special apparatus other than necessary terminal simulators. Presentation of data has been standardized to thet hree forms of tabular, graphical, and empirical equations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The Southern California Rapid Transit District (SCRTD) two-way radio system now in service provides voice communication and a silent alarm feature for safety purposes. The same equipment also provides automatic transmitter identification. These features have been accomplished using an added logic assembly installed in the driver's area of the bus not far from the handset hanger. The equipment sends four digits of vehicle identification, six digits of assignment information, and one digit of message type marking, generated with integrated circuit logic and transmitted with keyed audio tone. The assignment information is determined by a code card plugged in by the driver at the start of an assignment. At the base station, the information transmitted from each bus is first presented on a visual display in front of the dispatcher, recorded on a digital printer with a time code, and then analyzed for alarm and acknowledgment significance. In the event of an alarm, the location of the bus is known from the complete identification of route and run number. This information is used by dispatchers to provide rapid police assistance in emergencies."
"A method of vehicle location is discussed in which the attenuation of the signal from a mobile transmitter is measured. A test system and procedure for obtaining data is described. A series of curves are developed which specify the anticipated error for a four-station grid. The signal strength measurements could be very tedious and time consuming, but a system was devised that makes it possible to automate the procedure. This system, called the signal amplitude sampler and totalization unit (SASTU), is fully described."
"In a small-cell mobile telephone system, each channel may be used simultaneously in cells spaced sufficiently apart to limit cochannel interference. The extent of the interference depends upon the distance between cochannel cells, the number of land stations per cell, and the receiver capture ratio. The quantitative relationships among these parameters are derived for various cell configurations."
"A new maritime mobile radio telephone system adopted by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation (NTT), is described. An outline of the technical features of the entire system and the satellite repeater arrangement, adopted to reduce service-dead areas, is given."
"Forward error-correction equipment based on cyclic coding, which is applicable for selective calling and direct-printing systems in the maritime mobile service, is described. Some field test results are presented."
"A requirement for multiple frequency reception is placed on many mobile radio systems. The disadvantages of the present multiple frequency monitoring methods are reviewed and the design considerations of a new unique technique which overcomes these limitations are presented. Basically, this method utilizes sampling or time-sharing to always assure reception of the system's primary channel."
"Virtually all proposed vehicle control systems for highway automation must include a steady-state car-following mode. This mode was intensively investigated for various situations where headway and relative velocity inputs were used. In addition, a fundamental relationship between the flow capacity of an automated highway and the small-signal longitudinal response of a vehicle was investigated. The predictions obtained from mathematical models of various car-following modes were compared to those from full-scale tests. It was concluded that a linear mathematical representation of the longitudinal dynamics was valid, and thus it could be used for predictive purposes. Furthermore, it was verified that flow capacity on an automated highway is sharply limited by certain vehicle characteristics if headway feedback is used for vehicle control."
"The mathematics of intermodulation (IM) generation are surveyed, and it is shown that for land mobile receivers, worst case IM is a third-order effect occurring in the first mixer. The importance of relating the IM specification to the receiver sensitivity is pointed out. RF gain reduction or elimination, selectivity at both RF and IF, and the new square law mixing devices are all mentioned as techniques used for receiver IM reduction. The new diodes and field effect transistors are examined in greater detail. Their advantages of low noise and high burnout resistance are contrasted with the problems of conversion gain and high required local oscillator power levels."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In the ever-increasing trend to relieve man of time consuming menial tasks via automation, the digital logic designer's tasks have come under study. Various phases of this work are now being performed by computers. One of these phases, simulation of digital designs, is the topic of this paper."
"Factoring techniques are incorporated in computer-oriented algorithms for the synthesis of fan-in limited NAND switching networks. Tree networks with reduced gate count or levels of logic are sought. While example FORTRAN programs emphasize computer execution of the algorithms, they are also efficient for hand execution."
"The literature on computer reliability is replete with very convincing arguments for the need and the use of self-repair techniques, as a viable approach to significantly enhancing the reliability of both maintainable and nonmaintainable computers. However, it would seem that no comprehensive and coherent program for the development and optimal employment of such techniques exists. This means that no method exists in the open literature for deciding the following: 1) what self-repair techniques, taken singularly or in combination, provide the greatest improvement in reliability; 2) what methods are optimum for initiating fault diagnosis and self-repair by redundancy and replacement; 3) what constitutes a closed set of self-repair techniques and what theory can be formulated to demonstrate the set's completeness; and 4) what is the effect of self-repair on the total system relative to design, maintenance, availability, and so forth."
"The requirements, design, and performance of an integrable dc coupled digit detector array for high-speed memory systems such as the plated wire is described. The array consists of 12 detectors on 100-mil centers, on a tantalum film glass substrate using beam-lead monolithic chips. There are 218 resistors and 144 beam lead transistors formed or bonded with an area of 0.8 × 1.2 inch. Ninety-six of the transistors are monolithic differential pairs."
"An important aspect of the packaging of digital networks is the allocation of logic gates to modules such that a predetermined objective function is minimized. In order to develop techniques for this partitioning of a logic network we have considered the following problem: Given an acyclic combinational network composed of various primitive blocks such as NOR gates, assume that a maximum of M gates can be \"clustered\" together into larger modules, and that a maximum of P pins can be accommodated in each larger module. Assume also that in a network composed of such larger modules, no delay is encountered on the interconnections linking two gates internal to a module and a delay of one time unit is encountered on interconnections linking two gates in different modules . Find an easily applied algorithm that will result in a network such that the maximum delay through the network is minimized."
"An algorithm which reduces the number of gates and connections (diodes) in two-level, multiple-output combinational logic networks is presented and compared with conventional minimization procedures."
"This paper focuses attention upon the design of a processor and memory system which is structured to achieve a satisfactory balance of processor speed and memory speed when both the processor and input–output controller are simultaneously competing for memory service. A mathematical model is developed to investigate the degree to which the processor is capable of overlapping memory references with instruction execution as a function of respective cycle times, the number of instruction \"look-aheads,\" the number of independent memory modules, and input–output traffic. Utilizing this model, design trade-offs and performance indices are graphically examined for a hypothetical system."
"With a suitable adder organization it is possible to overlap the adder operation during a binary multiplication and significantly decrease the overall multiplication time. The method is explained and a prototype multiplier described. The new technique provides a very economical method of obtaining a reasonably fast multiplier."
"A fast method of generating bit-reversed addresses for the fast Fourier transform is described."
"In performing the operation of subtraction in additive systems, a popular practice is to complement the subtrahend and add. A second method of performing subtraction, which seems to have been overlooked, is to complement the minuend, add it to the subtrahend, and complement the result. In many cases, this second method is more awkward; however, in two instances it seems to be worthy of consideration. The first instance, surprisingly enough, concerns BCD systems, where minuend complementation can compare favorably with more conventional methods of BCD subtraction. The second instance concerns negative radix numbers where the technique of minuend complementation seems to offer definite advantages."
"Statistical recognition procedures can be derived from the functional form of underlying probability distributions. Successive approximation to the probability function leads to a class of recognition procedures. In this note we give a hierarchical method of designing recognition functions which satisfy both the least-square error property and a minimum decision error rate property, although our discussions are restricted to a binary measurement space and its dichotomous classification."
"In his recent short note on redundancy,1Deo overlooks an important failure-free condition that takes into account the cancellation of votes by two modules failing in opposing states."
"In general, when a logical element fails it can fail not only at true or false levels but at any one of infinitely many different voltage levels. Thus, strictly speaking, one should talk of probability density function, rather than discrete probabilities. When considering the simultaneous failures of several modules one has to consider the joint probability density function."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"My first comment is that it is necessary for technology to continue in any area (even though that area is considered dead by the majority of people). A good example of this is analog and/or hybrid simulation."
"The authors consider generating (with integrators) a discontinuous function f(t) for use on an analog computer. It is assumed that f(t) is continuous on each of m subintervals tj< t< tj+i, j=0, * , m-1, and that within each subinterval, f can be approximated by a polynomial of degree n: In (1), the ai, are constant for t tj< t< tj+i, but change at each transition time tj+i. With the definition (1) satisfies the differential system only if the output of each ft undergoes abrupt jumps at tj+i, From (1), the jumps sk,jare found to be These jumps cannot be represented directly in (3); integrator outputs must be continuous. The way around this difficulty is to transform the integrator outputs to continuous variables gk. Let Now, since fk=gk, we have by direct substitution This gives rise to a circuit with n integrators, m-1 double-pole single-throw switches (to switch the positive and negative reference needed for obtaining Sk+1,jwith potentiometers), and one summer (to implement fo=go+so,j). The authors derive (6) in an alternate manner using the Laplace transform and slightly different notation."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A model is developed for allocating information files required in common by several computers. The model considers storage cost, transmission cost, file lengths, and request rates, as well as updating rates of files, the maximum allowable expected access times to files at each computer, and the storage capacity of each computer. The criterion of optimality is minimal overall operating costs (storage and transmission). The model is formulated into a nonlinear integer zero-one programming problem, which may be reduced to a linear zero-one programming problem. A simple example is given to illustrate the model."
"In this paper a practical approach to generate fault detection tests for four-phase MOS LSI circuits is discussed. Emphasis is given to a computer aid on the generation of both primary output and primary input test sequences. A technique to preset the circuit to predictable logic levels is presented."
"Permeable keepers are used in a plated-wire memory to reduce the adjacent bit interference and the current requirement. Computations of a magnetic field have been performed to determine the quantitative effect of the keeper size on the field enhancement in the region where the information is to be stored and on the field reduction outside this region. The field enhancement can be interpreted as the reduction in current for a given magnetic field, and the reduction of the fringing field as the reduction in adjacent bit interference. The numerical results which represent valuable design considerations for a plated-wire memory are presented in graphical form."
"Algorithms for a unified interval classification and a unified 3-classification for use in associative memories are presented. The former, which is more generally known as between-limits classification, achieves the classification of the words of an associative memory into those within and those without an interval marked by two given limits; the latter achieves the classification of the words into the three classes, between the given limits, above the upper limit, and below the lower limit. The term \"unified,\" used for both, denotes the contraction of the two limit classifications which are required in the straightforward approach to either classification into one carried out simultaneously with respect to both given limits. Due to this unification, the presented algorithms are capable of achieving considerable time savings in associative memories of a frequent type. The designs of cryogenic associative memories of this type, containing certain circuit requirements for the performance of the algorithms, are also presented."
"This paper discusses a class of methods for pattern classification using a set of samples. They may also be used in reconstructing a probability density from samples. The methods discussed are potential function methods of a type directly derived from concepts related to superposition. The characteristics required of a potential function are examined, and it is shown that smooth potential functions exist that will separate arbitrary sets of sample points. Ideas suggested by Specht in regard to polynomial potential functions are extended."
"This paper discusses optimization and implementation of recognition networks using interconnections of a standard network element to form a classification network. The standard element has a nonlinear transfer function whose inputs may be weighted by selected resistors. It is assumed that a training set of samples to be accepted or rejected is available but neither the a priori probabilities or the probability density functions of the measurements that describe the samples are known. The discriminant functions are formed from a given topology with unknown sets of weighting resistors assigned to the elements that constitute the classification network. Computer optimization is done using a hill-climbing technique that maximizes a function related to the miss rate and false alarm rate but requires neither an estimate or exact description of the sample probability space. A particular advantage is the one-to-one correspondence between the results of the optimization program and physical realization of the optimal recognition network. Disadvantages are due to the fact that an optimum can be found only with respect to a given topology and that the optimization algorithm may prematurely terminate on a local maximum."
"In this paper we shall study the problem of nonlinear separation. As usual, a Boolean function F of n binary variables, xl,..., xn, xiΣ{1,0}, i=1,..., n, will be represented by a set of vertices C in the n-dimensional Euclidean space Enwhere each vertex has n binary-valued components, {1,0}."
"The worst-case output voltage ratio Vs(1)min/Vs(0)maxis derived for a resistor memory matrix having a finite resistance ratio for the bit elements. It is found that the resistance ratio need not be large, and ratios greater than ten are usually sufficient. Input power and output voltage tradeoffs are also discussed."
"In computer operating systems where background jobs must occasionally be preempted in order to run high priority jobs, it is generally the case that efficient operation and rapid response to the high priority jobs are conflicting objectives. In this short paper a preemption scheme in which a delay is introduced is shown to provide the designer with the ability to trade off these two performance measures to any desired degree. A mathematical model is developed and results are derived for the mean high priority waiting time and a measure of operating efficiency. The paper concludes with a discussion of examples designed to illustrate how the above performance measures interact as a function of system parameters."
"A cellular structure (\"transfer logic\"), suitable for implementing sequential networks, is described in this paper. A method is outlined for obtaining, for a given flow table, a transfer logic assignment employing the minimal number of state variables. The method is based on the properties of partitions of the set of internal states."
"In this short note, an attempt has been made to arrive at a general algorithm for minimizing the number of internal states in an incompletely specified flow table. The closure property of the compatibility classes which cover a given flow table leads us to the derivation of a particular class of closed sets defined as irredundant prime closed sets. It has been shown that these prime closed sets in sequential circuit synthesis play an analogous role to that of the prime implicants in combinational circuit synthesis. A method has been described for determining all the irredundant prime closed sets and finding the minimal row flow table by suitably choosing one or a collection of those sets."
"An algorithm is provided for obtaining any Boolean function as a modulo-2 sum of products containing only uncomplemented variables. The proofs, which verify the algorithm and show the uniqueness of the results, are simple and free of special mathematical notation."
"This correspondence presents a logical design procedure for feedback shift registers, which permits the gating of a common clock signal."
"Equation (14) on p. 226 of the above1 should have read:"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper presents a carefully described method for answering restricted natural language questions about elementary drawings. The algorithm produces as output a flow chart for a computer program which could then be used to infer the answer from a list structure representing the picture. The work described was performed while the author worked with Saul Amarel at the RCA Laboratories in Princeton, N.J. during the summer of 1965. The paper is well written, and its only major deficiency is that, in this rapidly moving field, a period of three and one-half years elapsed before it was published in the open literature.1"
"One of the prominent research topics in Artificial Intelligence continues to be the development of problem-solving methods in which the process of \"search\" plays a vital role. In the usual formulation, [1] one imagines a space of \"objects\" and a collection of \"operators.\" The objects are data structures such as strings, lists, arrays, etc. that represent problem \"states.\" The operators map objects into other objects. A problem to be solved is then translated into the task of finding a sequence of operators that will map an initial object into a goal object. Among the problems that have been formulated in this fashion are puzzles (the missionaries and cannibals problem, the Tower of Hanoi problem), problems in mathematics (symbolic integration, proving theorems in geometry), parsing sentences, proving theorems in the predicate calculus, and problems of commonsense reasoning about actions."
"The present work is well written. The authors do not try to give the impression of being high priests writing for the initiated few, something which happens all too often in J. ACM."
"The essential premise of this paper is that hybrid computing systems can be made superior to purely analog or purely digital systems in the solution of certain partial differential equations. The reasoning behind such a premise needs to be better delineated. We are reminded, barely in paassing, of the anolag speed, although we don't get even typical comparisons with digital speed. More importantly, however, the motivation for selectively using the digital computer is incomplete."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The unsupervised estimation problem has been conveniently formulated in terms of a mixture density. It has been shown that a criterion naturally arises whose maximum defines the Bayes minimum risk solution. This criterion is the expected value of the natural log of the mixture density. By making the assumptions that the component densities in the mixture are truncated Gaussian, the criterion has a greatly simplified form. This criterion can be used to resolve mixtures when the number of classes as well as the class covariances are unknown. In this paper a technique is presented where an assumed test covariance is supplied by an experimenter who uses a test function as a \"portable magnifying glass\" to examine data. Because the experimenter supplies the covariance and thus the test function, the technique is especially suited for interactive data analysis."
"This paper analyzes the performance, for a particular strategy, of a head-per-track type auxiliary storage system in a real-time environment. The prototype system of either fixed-head disks or drums incorporates a hardware queuer. This device attempts to always select first that request for a data transfer which will incur the shortest rotational latency relative to all other possible waiting file access requests. The queueing analysis is concerned with the tradeoff which is experienced in practice between throughput of a stochastic service device and the response time for each service request. An exact analysis of the system is shown to be totally unmanageable. Therefore, the approach is to estimate the results via physical arguments. We obtain an approximate stationary distribution for the waiting time of a file access request in the system."
"A single processor provides service to jobs of several different priority classes. The priority ordering remains constant over time; however, the type of priority, i. e., preemptive or nonpreemptive, may depend upon the stage of processing of the job occupying the processor. We allow these preemptible and nonpreemptible intervals to be specified in a relatively arbitrary fashion. If a job is interrupted, a setup time must be incurred before processing can be continued on the job. If arrivals from all classes constitute independent Poisson streams, we are able to obtain expressions for the steady-state expected time in system for jobs of each class. These expressions are then analyzed to determine the optimum manner for assigning the preemptible and nonpreemptible intervals. When setup times are zero and preemptible portions are preemptive-resume, the optimal policy is fairly simple. When setup times are nonzero, the form of the optimal policy is not clear; however, numerical evaluations suggest that at high loads, e.g., greater than 0.9, one should allow much less preemption or time-sharing than one might suspect."
"This paper compares empirical results that have been obtained for several virtual memory swapping algorithms. The algorithms were tested as software components of a multiple computer on-line system."
"A computer system is said to be balanced whenever the set of running programs presents a total demand, for both processors and memory, that matches the available equipment. The equipment configuration, here defined as the proper relative capacities of processor and memory resources in a balanced computer system, may be determined analytically."
"Given an acyclic directed graph where vertices represent computational tasks, arcs represent transfer of control, and two labels—called input and output logics—associated with each vertex show either the concurrency or the mutual exclusiveness of tasks, procedures are given to determine a lower and an upper bound on the number of processors required for maximum parallelism. The lower bound is obtained via a mean path length approach, while the upper bound is based on the structure of the graph. A detailed algorithm is given for the latter. First, some reduction rules are applied yielding a subset of the vertices which can be performed in parallel. Then the maximum cut in the graph is determined taking into account mutually exclusive vertices. Results are given for example graphs."
"One of the important potentials of multiprocessor systems is the ability to speed the completion of a computation by concurrently processing independent portions of the job. In this paper we consider the static scheduling of computations for a system containing two indentical processors. The object is to complete the computation in the minimum amount of time. A computation is assumed to be specified as a partially ordered set of tasks and the execution time for each task. A solution for the two-machine case with preemptive scheduling is presented."
"This research is aimed at developing analytical tools for system modeling and analysis of real-time computer networks. We formulate an idealized mathematical model for a multiserver system with a finite length nonpreemptive priority queue."
"A special-purpose computer organization of a time-shared digital filter suitable for real-time applications is described. The computer is organized in functional modules so that the order of the filter, the coefficients of the filter, the programming form of the filter, and the multiplexing scheme for the filter are readily adaptable to system needs."
"Most large time-sharing computers require some sort of a data concentrator or multiplexor to accept inputs from a large number of low-speed remote terminals. Two major disadvantages of most of these concentrators are that they are nonprogrammable and relatively expensive. This paper describes the use of a small microprogrammed computer with a special instruction wired into the READ-ONLY memory to perform the multiplexing action. This approach has resulted in a programmable terminal controller which will handle up to 32 remotes, and provides enough processing capability to do code conversion and editing. This not only relieves the main computer of these routine tasks, but also reduces the amount and complexity of system modification within the main computer."
"TSS/8 is an existence proof for a small-scale time-sharing system. Design, development, and performance analysis have occurred in quasiparallel. Performance analysis includes two models and two levels of simulation (using SIMULA). The final simulation, an accurate model of the real operating system, predicts the observed behavior."
"The control unit maps a semicontinuous address space of the computer into a segmented BCD-addressed address space of the disk. An interesting buffering system provides for the maximum memory access time of the PDP-8 and high disk transfer rate. In principle, the buffering could be generalized to handle arbitrarily long waiting delays. The position of the disk may be read under program control. The execution of erroneous command sequences are not permitted (and hardware detected). Out-of-range disk addresses are detected."
"This paper proposes a compatible extension of PL/I as a general-purpose process-control language which makes analog and digital real-time variables available in essentially the same manner as conventional PL/I variables. Provisions are made for handling external interrupts and scheduling of tasks, including periodic tasks and groups of tasks. Implementation problems are discussed."
"This paper describes a simple, efficient, and highly flexible technique for interpreting and processing commands entered by operators and other users of a computer."
"A small, but fast, associative memory can be used in a \"look-aside\" manner to improve the overall memory performance of a computer. For a 128-cell 100-ns associate memory working with a 1-us main memory, the effective memory cycle time is reduced to between 350-to 400-ns."
"In the near future, vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) aircraft will be flying a wide envelope of complex trajectories in the terminal area to relieve airport congestion. The digital letdown computer automatically guides a VTOL aircraft along a preselected vertical profile to the terminal area."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A method for solving mazes with extended open areas and arbitrarily placed walls is described. This method reduces large open areas containing many possible paths to a small set of shortest paths. It is then possible to use Moore's algorithm of which the paper includes a summary. A computer simulation of a vehicle exploring an unknown maze is discussed. Crude navigation and measurement are sufficient for maze solving with the techniques described."
"A branch-and-bound algorithm is presented for the synthesis of multioutput, multilevel, cycle-free NAND networks to realize an arbitrary given set of partially or completely specified combinational switching functions. In a programmed version of the algorithm, fan-in, fan-out, and level constraints may be specified. Cost may be specified as a nonnegative integer linear combination of gates and gate inputs. Further constraints and cost criteria are compatible with the algorithm. A first solution is constructed by a sequence of local decisions, and backtracking is executed to find improved solutions and to prove the optimality of the final solution."
"This paper considers the general problem of the synthesis of asynchronous combinational and sequential circuits based on the assumption that gate delays may be unbounded and that line delays are suitably constrained. Certain problems inherent to circuit realizations with unbounded gate delays are discussed and methods of solving them are proposed. Specific synthesis techniques are presented for both combinational and sequential circuits. The use of completion detection necessitated by the assumption of unbounded gate delays also causes the circuits to stop operating for approximately half of all possible single faults, thus achieving a degree of self-checking."
"This paper is Part I of a two-part study of systematic procedures for realizing synchronous sequential machines using flip-flop memory. In this study the methods of Dolotta and McCluskey, and Weiner and Smith are generalized so that they can be used to obtain directly good realization of machines using flip-flop memory. In Part I the generalizations are simple, straightforward, and require a minimal amount of changes to the basic methods. For machines using trigger flip-flop memory or a combination of trigger and set-reset, or trigger and J–K flip-flops, these generalizations usually yield significantly better realizations than those obtained from the use of the ungeneralized versions of these methods along with methods for transforming the resulting next-state functions into flip-flop input functions. Minimization of changes of these methods was achieved at the expense of imposing the restriction that the inputs to each of the set-reset and J–K flip-flop types be complementary. In Part II of this study1 further generalizations for obtaining even better realizations using trigger, set-reset, and J–K flip-flops are developed by dropping the aforementioned restriction."
"Sequences with properties which make them attractive discrete-time signals for simulating analog signals are generated by the Poisson transform. It is shown that a finite number of Poisson transform sequence elements gives a signal representation equivalent to a best mean square representation with either Laguerre polynomials or functions."
"a matrix factorization is presented for a Hadamard matrix of order twelve that permits a Hadamard transform of this order to be computed with substantially fewer operations than by simple matrix multiplication. The matrix factorization is extended to Hadamard matrices of order 2nX 12 where n is an integer."
"A system of memory sharing is proposed as a means for computer communication."
"The n-tuple method of pattern recognition has been simulated on a somewhat larger and more comprehensive scale than previously reported. The nonweighted version has been found to work better than the maximum likelihood weighted version, and to achieve about 93 percent successful recognition of unconstrained hand-printed numerals, but at the cost of about 42 million bits of storage."
"A recently proposed approach to the solution of non-linear equations gives the same computing formulas as the generalized secant method. The effect of rounding-off errors is shown to be less than might be feared. References are given to the quasi-Newton forn of the method."
"The method for solution of a system of simultaneous nonlinear equations proposed by Kuo [1] gives the same results as one proposed by Wolfe [2]. Correct equations for Wolfe's method of matrix inversion are given. References to other methods of the non-derivative type are also given."
"I wish to thank J. T. Taylo for his comment on my recent Correspondence item, \"Solution of nonlinear equations.\" It was interesting to discover that the iterative formula, which I derived, was the same as that developed by Wolfe whose paper was not previously known to me."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"There seem to be two kinds of computer scientists: those who hate software and those who hate hardware. This dichotomy in our field has generated many problems, such as unprogrammable computers, ridiculous software fixes for essentially hardware problems, and the development of hardware devices for which no sane programmer has any conceivable need. Similarly, the textbooks in our field display this same problem: each discusses either hardware or software, but rarely does it adequately cover both."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A large-scale integrated-circuit chip has been designed under the sponsorship of the Air Force Avionics Laboratory. The chip was developed as part of a logic synthesizer effort of the Design Automation group at Litton Systems, Inc., Guidance and Control Systems Division. It was designed as a type or category to be multiply used with one other gating type chip whose format is prescribed by the logic synthesizer. A major goal of this effort will be to design a complete digital system by design-automated techniques using only these two types of chips in a large-scale array."
"A fundamental problem in \"cellular logic\" is to be able to \"synthesize\" \"cellular arrays\" for arbitrary switching functions that minimize a set of design parameters like size of the arrays and complexity of the individual cells and of the interconnection pattern on the cells. This paper is an attempt to develop \"minimization algorithms for cellular arrays.\""
"This paper presents an elaboration of the unateness test of a Boolean function based on the definition of the so-called simple zero or unit transition of arguments of the given Boolean function. It is proved that the unateness of the given Boolean function is subject to the necessary and sufficient condition that there must be no occurrence of both simple unit transition and zero transition at the same time. Whether this condition is satisfied or not can easily be seen from the truth table of the given function."
"In this paper the possibility of removing in synchronous sequential machines some of the delay elements which store the internal state is discussed. Theorems and methods are given for eliminating all removable delay elements from a given realization of a synchronous machine and for selecting the assignments leading to a realization which requires the least number of delay elements. It is shown how the existence of these assignments is related to the existence of a pair of partitions on the set of states of the given machine. The internal performance of the sequential networks in which at least one but not all delay elements are removed is studied, and a \"hybrid operating mode\" is defined. A reclassification of sequential machines in terms of the algebraic structure of machines which relates to the number of removable delay elements is proposed. Sequential machines are, therefore, divided in three categories: synchronous, hybrid, and asynchronous, and some problems of decomposition for the three types of machines are discussed."
"This paper presents a unified approach to the synthesis of linear sequential machines with unspecified outputs. The basic tools employed here are the transition graphs and the coset partitions of linear machines. Coset partitions are studied in detail and used to clarify the various synthesis methods using partitions. They are then combined with the transition graphs to form a set of unified synthesis methods which are applicable to any kind of linear machines and very effective even if the number of states is large. Examples are given to illustrate the techniques. A complete set of synthesis methods is also given in the conclusions."
"A transition signal is a change of binary level, either from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 0, regardless of the direction. It is often more convenient to describe a switching circuit in terms of level transitions, and a circuit with at least one input variable represented as a transition signal is called a transition logic circuit. Transition logic circuits are essentially level sequential circuits and, as such, Huffman's synthesis method can be applied. However, Huffman's synthesis rapidly becomes too laborious as the number of transition variables increases. The first part of this paper presents a synthesis approach which is simpler than Huffman's in such cases, although its applicability is more limited. In this approach, one considers a level transition as if it were a pulse, and then synthesizes the circuit following the standard pulse sequential circuit synthesis method. Circuits are constructed from two basic transition logic elements, the G element and the M element, together with ordinary gates."
"The problem considered is the selection of a subset of diagnostic test inputs for combinational circuits. The selected subset of tests will diagnose a single fault to the package level, i.e., until the package which contains the fault is determined. The procedure in obtaining this subset makes use of information provided by multiple outputs, and through a local optimization technique provides a near-optimal global procedure. The local optimization technique weights the tests according to the degree to which they partition the possible faulty packages. The test that provides the greatest partitioning in conjunction with previous selected tests is added to the subset of diagnostic tests."
"Armstrong, Friedman, and Menon have shown how fundamental-mode normal flow tables can be realized without delay elements under the constraint that line delays do not exceed a given chain of gate delays. The state assignments for these tables are designed to yield noncritical races and minimum transition times. This note presents an independently discovered alternative to their design procedure and also extends their results to totally sequential (or race-free) state assignments. The almost totally sequential state assignment is defined and presented as an approach toward delay-free realizations, under suitable line delay constraints, of nonnormal flow tables."
"The efficiency (in terms of both execution time and storage requirements) of a recently presented algorithm for computing the fast Fourier transform is compared to that of alternative algorithms."
"The new method of solving nonlinear equations suggested by Kuo1is very interesting and the insight is truly commendable. However, the claim that the new method involves a smaller measure of work than the Newton-Raphson (N-R) method is somewhat m misleading. This statement is explained as follows."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper presents an empirical formula C=K1(K2)ng·h/(g+h) for the average cost C of a two-level combinational logic network (switching circuit) implementing a single Boolean function with specified numbers of independent variables n, \"one\" vertices g, and \"zero\" vertices h (or don't-care vertices d=2n−g−h). K1and K2are constants that depend, generally, on the used technology and available types of moduli."
"This paper constitutes a description of a potentially interesting class of analog-digital computing systems. Unfortunately, much of the discussion is devoted to nomenclature and to general comments which are too vague to permit a meaningful evaluation of the approach."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An all digital method to produce radar reflectivity plots from analog flight data is presented. The method constitutes a qualitative and operational advance over existing methods. The data are audio-frequency Doppler information extracted from the terrain echo signal of a 13.3-GHz CW scatterometer radar."
"Addition algorithm, decimal adder with signed digit arithmetic p presented here was designed to establish the following facts: the redundant representation of a decimal digit xi by a 5-bit binary number Xi=3xi leads to a logical design of extreme simplicty; it is possible to form an additional algorithm for the adder so that it can be used to transform numbers written in a conventional decinal form into a signed digit form, and vice versa."
"Two procedures are presented for detecting and diagnosing arbitrary single-gate failures in combinational logic circuits. A gate is defined as any multiple-input single-output combinational circuit, and a failure is any detectable transformation of the correct gate function. The testing procedures do not require the construction of a fault table and will locate, to within an equivalence class, the faulty gate and describe its failure."
"An algorithm is presented for calculating recognition error when applying pattern vectors to an optimum Bayes' classifier. The pattern vectors are assumed to come from two classes whose populations have Gaussian statistics with unequal covariance matrices and arbitrary a priori probabilities. The quadratic discriminant function associated with a Bayes' classifier is used as a one-dimensional random variable from which the probability of error is calculated, once the distribution of the discriminant function is obtained."
"The problem of solving sequential Boolean equations is shown to be equivalent to the problem of finding whether there exists a path on a labeled graph for every sequence of labels. Algorithms are given for testing whether a solution exists, and if a solution with a finite delay exists. In case of existence of solutions the algorithms provide them."
"The transform presented in this paper applies to functions which describe logic network behavior. Given a function G defined over a finite domain, it is shown that G(u) = Et F(t)ut for each element u in the domain, where finite-field arithmetic is assumed. Here, function F is the transform of G, and it is shown that F(t) = Eu G(u)(-u)-t for each integer t in a finite set. Both form and development of this transform pair resembles the Fourier transform in harmonic analysis."
"The equivalence relation that partitions switching functions into affine families leads to a natural graphic representation of the families. From the graphs, it is possible to derive information on the self-symmetries of switching functions and the relative symmetries of functions that are in the same family. A catalog of the structures of the 39 families of four-variable functions appears in the paper. The catalog and, more generally, the theory of affine equivalence are useful tools for the design of logic networks that contain exclusive-OR modules among the set of primitive building blocks."
"The paper deals with the problem of \"compound\" and \"cascade threshold\" element \"synthesis\" of an arbitrary Boolean function from the \"multithreshold weight threshold vector\" (MTWTV). The above synthesis procedure is presented to reveal a unique feature of the multithreshold weight threshold vector, from which several realizations of threshold element nets can be obtained from one of the multithreshold weight threshold vectors."
"This note describes the simple calculation required to obtain circuit yields from component yields for integrated circuits. A graph is presented to illustrate the high component yields required for MSI and LSI technology."
"A digital comparator has been attached to a PDP-4/340 display terminal. This comparator is used to detect the presence of the CRT beam within a specified portion of the display screen."
"A (d, k, μ graph is defined as a graph in which every vertex has degree at most d, and every pair of vertices are joined by μ edge-disjoint paths, each of length at most k. The order of a graph is the number of vertices it contains. N(d, k, μ) is the number that is the largest of all the orders of ( d, k, μ) graphs. Elspas has investigated , k, pμ graphs when k= 2 and when k = .μ In this paper, (d, k, μ) graphs for d = μ are constructed, yielding lower bounds on N(d, k, d). Further, for d= k = μ = 3, N( d, k, μ) is determined and the graphs attaining this order are characterized. ( d, k, μ) graphs are potentially useful in determining how propagation delay, terminal packing factors, and possible blocking conditions may constrain a modeled digital system."
"In this note, we examine the problem of finding good state assignments when mixed memory type realizations (i.e., including mixtures of delay and trigger flip-flop memories) are permitted. Specifically, we describe situations that take advantage of this extra degree of design freedom, and we indicate how to modify two existing algorithms to determine such mixed realizations systematically."
"This crrespondence is concerned with the develop-ment of a simple set of rules used to determine disjunctively decomposable logic functions by means of a single Karnaugh map."
"In Renschler's short note1 the variable counter (Fig. 3) and divide-by-N counter (Fig. 4) could be simplified in terms of the number of logic elements involved and the total cost to implement."
"The suggested simplifications of the system designs (Figs. 3 and 4) offered by Davis in his above comment are quite simple, straight-forward, and certainly valid, as one must consider these economical factors when a system of this type is designed. However, I think he has missed the point of the whole short note, at least as it was intended. It attempted not to offer a minimum-cost fully optimized system, but merely to discuss the concept of programmable clocked counters in general terms, as I thought the subject was very interesting, yet had failed to find it documented anywhere in the literature echnical journals or trade magazines)."
"The divide-by-N counter outlined in Fig. 4 of Renschlerl appears to be severely overcomplicated, due, I suspect, to the author's having devised the decimal-BCD converter of Fig. 2 for a divide-by-N down counter, and then adding gating circuitry in order to use this converter in an up-counter."
"This paper discusses the problems of simulating systems in which some random behavior exists. The title refers to \"discrete-event simulation,\" but this remains undefined and unemphasized throughout most of the paper. (The expression refers to svstems in which events, such as customer arrivals, occur at a countable set of points on the continuous time axis–this as opposed to a continuous-event simulation in which important properties of the system must be accounted for over a continuum in a given time interval.) The authors trace the elements of a typical experiment and identify the statistical problems along with a discussion of their possible solutions. They isolate a number of frequently overlooked considerations in the random input process, particularly the independence of adjacent samples. Similarly, in estimating system performance, the problem of correlated outputs must be solved. In short, in any simulation, the input data and the system structure must be understood and examined carefully."
"This paper develops and investigates a practical method by which certain aerospace trajectory optimization problems with terminal constraints can be relatively easily solved on a hybrid computer. If a gradient technique has been selected for the optimization process, then it has generally been the practice to solve the equations adjoint to the equations of motion by utilizing a digital computer. In the present work no utilization is made of the adjoint variables. The gradient is calculated by determining the response of the cost function to approximately impulsive control perturbations, similar to the method used by Wingrove and Raby. The variational problems which are considered are those of the Mayer type where the cost function to be minimized is a function of the terminal state and terminal time. In this paper a technique is developed so that the gradient which is calculated is compatible with imposed terminal constraints. The calculation of this modified gradient, which consists of a linear combination of the cost gradient and the gradients of the terminal constraints, is relatively simple and can be rapidly performed on the hybrid computer. The circuitry required for handling the terminal constraints by this technique, as well as that required to simulate the other equations of the problem, is described in substantial detail."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A digital system design language, DDL, has been described and shown to provide a concise yet precise means of specifying the organization and operation of digital systems, regardless of timing mode or hardware types, at various levels of detail [2]. This paper defines a series of tasks that transform any DDL document to Boolean and next-state equations from which a system may be implemented. Each task of the transformation produces another DDL description of a system which uses fewer features of the language."
"This paper is concerned with the sign detection problem in residue number systems. The proposed solution is applicable only to nonredundant systems. It is shown that under rather general conditions an explicit, closed formula for the sign function can be obtained. In a special case, when one of the moduli is 2, the sign function becomes an EXCLUSIVE-OR function. A sign detection algorithm is proposed and methods of implementing the algorithm are presented."
"This paper describes a method whereby multiple regression techniques are used to predict the delay between input and output signals through a combinatorial logic chain."
"A method of decision making which leads to the formation of a gain vector by utilizing a design set of patterns from only the class to be recognized is proposed. Some comparisons of this method with the adaline technique have been made and the method has been applied to the practical problem of speaker verification."
"This paper is concerned with a general approach to the on-line simulation of block-diagram systems. These systems may be analog, digital, or hybrid; memory or memoryless; explicit or implicit (i.e., possessing loops of memoryless elements); vector or scalar; or of a more specialized nature, such as dynamic systems with integrators as memory elements; and simulation may be conducted in one or more dimensions, such as time and/or space."
"Fuzzy logic deals with propositions which may be ascribed values between falsehood and truth (0 and 1) subjectively in either a continuous or a discrete fashion. This is in contrast to ordinary logic (two-valued or k-valued logic) in which a given proposition is ascribed values objectively using either deterministic or probabilistic approaches."
"An n-dimensional iterative array of finite-state machines is formally introduced as a real-time tape acceptor. The computational characteristics of iterative arrays are illuminated by establishing several results concerning the sets of tapes that they recognize. Intercommunication between machines in an array is characterized by specifying a stencil for the array. The computing capability of the array is preserved even if its stencil is reduced to a simple form in which machines communicate only with their nearest neighbors. An increase of computing speed by a constant factor k is defined by encoding k-length blocks of the input tapes, which reduces the lengths of the tapes by 1/k; the time available for computation is correspondingly reduced since the computation must be real time. The computation speed of iterative arrays can be increased by any constant factor k. Two examples of one-dimensional arrays are provided. The first accepts the set of palindromes; the second accepts the set of all tapes of the form ττ (for any tape τ). The latter set of tapes is not a context-free language; therefore, the sets of tapes accepted by iterative arrays are not all contained in the class of context-free languages. Conversely, the class of context-free languages is not contained in the class of sets of tapes accepted by iterative arrays. The sets of tapes accepted by iterative arrays are closed under the operations: union, intersection, and complement; therefore, they form a Boolean algebra. They are not closed under the reflection or concatenation-product operations."
"Recognition experiments have been performed on handprinted characters using a set of features which has not been applied previously to handprinting. Glucksman's \"characteristic loci\" were utilized in experiments with the well-known Highleyman data, as well as samples generated at Stanford Research Institute and Honeywell. Two recognition algorithms were tested. Results on numeric samples compare favorably with those of other investigators despite the small dimensionality of the feature vector. On the constrained Honeywell samples, recognition rates exceeding 98 percent were achieved using the simpler algorithm. With alphabetic samples, some problems remain in resolving persistent ambiguities, and methods for attacking these problems are considered."
"Seven methods are compared for deriving approximate realizing weights and threshold for a threshold function, given its Chow parameters. These include use of the parameters themselves, methods published by Dertouzos and the author, and several new methods. The comparison is made over all seven-argument self-dual threshold function types, and establishes a certain \"geometric rule\" as best. One third of the types were exactly realized by the approximation, and the average number of mistakes was very small."
"The use of unique identifiers to indicate covered terms in a Karnaugh map minimization algorithm significantly improves the chances of obtaining a minimum cover for complex functions. This correspondence presents a technique that takes advantage of unique identifers."
"In a recent paper,<sup>1</sup>a linear programming method was proposed for finding linear discriminant functions. The dual linear program is a much smaller problem with upper bounded variables, which can be solved efficiently."
"Placing a fixed resistor in parallel with an adjustable resistor will cause the resistance of the combination to vary as the logarithm of the setting of the adjustable resistor over a limited range. Calculated compromises between accuracy and range cover ±0.1 percent over a 2.5:1 range to ±10 percent over a 175:1 range. A table of intermediate values is given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper discusses the use of a hybrid simulation in the investigation of a specific synthesis procedure. Its content is divided between two subjects: a time domain synthesis procedure based on Gaussian wave functions and a hybrid computer realization of the required operations. These topics are discussed adequately enough to serve as an introduction to the material; but insufficient data are presented to determine how the procedure will compare with other analysis-synthesis systems, such as the vocoder. To determine the practicality of an approach, both a synthesis and an analysis procedure must be described, realized, and used to process significant amounts of speech. This paper discusses in detail only the realization of the synthesis procedure and thus an evaluation of the approach cannot be made at present."
"The problem posed in this paper is the solution of Laplace's equation using the cylindrical coordinates r and z in an axially symmetric region. The boundary for this region consists of the surface r=b(z) and two end planes at z=0 and z=a. Assuming that the potential is specified on this boundary, the solution for V(r, z) is desired for all interior points. An example of an application is the design of an electron gun in which the solution for the electrostatic potential is used in computing electron trajectories."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An algorithm for the analysis of multivariate data is presented along with some experimental results. The algorithm is based upon a point mapping of N L-dimensional vectors from the L-space to a lower-dimensional space such that the inherent data \"structure\" is approximately preserved."
"A mathematical model for simulating pulse propagation in ferrite core memory arrays is described. Although specifically developed to analyze 3-dimensional arrays, the model is sufficiently general to give a satisfactory analysis of pulse propagation, waveform deterioration, and noise generation in a wide variety of memory configurations. The model treats the memory as a generalized, mutually coupled, multiconductor transmission line system. Insofar as is possible, the transmission line parameters are calculated from the array geometry, thus leaving only a small number of parameters that must be supplied empirically. Following a discussion of the equations which define the model and the methods by which they are solved, a sample array calculation is given to illustrate the kind of information that can be obtained from the model."
"In this paper a scheme is proposed for automating the scaling process for analog computers in hybrid (analog-digital) systems. The analog computer's magnitude and frequency constraints are imposed by a set of equations defining amplifier input factors. The digital computer is used not only to compute and implement these inputs but also to monitor analog amplifier outputs so that present scale factors can be revised when required. An example is included to illustrate the utility and function of the automation."
"Accessing of more than one word truly simultaneously in time from the same memory module is termed multiaccess. An associative memory with such a capability can be made from reset-set flip-flops. There are practical limitations to the number of words that can be simultaneously accessed. Some hardware and software implications of multiaccessibility are discussed."
"The state assignment problem for finite-state sequential machines is examined in the context of threshold logic. An algorithm is developed for assigning binary codes to the states, inputs, and outputs so that the state variable and output variable functions satisfy the necessary condition of 2-assumability that they be linearly separable. The algorithm deals with 2-block partitions by which the assignments are made. First those partitions which cannot be used are computed. For each of the remaining partitions, a list is compiled of those partitions of which one must be used if the given partition is used. Finally, a method is given for constructing the sets of partitions satisfying these constraints and having zero product. Code assignments made by these partition sets will induce 2-asummable functions."
"An \"asynchronous unit delay\" is an n-input n-output asynchronous sequential circuit in which the present value of the output n-tuple is equal to the value of input n-tuple prior to the last input change. In this paper it is shown that such a circuit can be used as a basic building block in the design of any asynchronous circuit. It is shown that any fundamental mode flow table is realizable by a circuit of feedback index m with one asynchronous unit delay, m inertial delays, and a combinational network, where m is the smallest integer ≥ {log2 max (Si)} and Si is the number of stable states in any input column of the table. A straightforward method of realizing \"asynchronous indefinite\" fundamental mode tables without critical races by circuits of feedback index 1 with k asynchronous unit delays, one inertial delay, and combinational gates is also suggested. The approach suggested in this paper avoids complicated secondary assignment problems, results in circuits with simple structure, and further, brings closer the theories of synchronous and asynchronous sequential circuits."
"A decomposition and reconstruction approach for synthesizing an arbitrary Boolean function with a minimum number of threshold logic elements connected by feedforward paths only is presented. Attention is mainly focused on cascade-type realizations. The approach has the advantage that near-minimal solutions are readily derived. An estimate of how closely the minimality has been approached is obtainable in this method. The method has been successfully applied by the authors to Boolean functions of 5 and 6 variables."
"The discrete, orthogonal Walsh functions can be generated by a multiplicative iteration equation. Using this iteration equation, an efficient Walsh transform computation algorithm is derived which is analogous to the Cooley-Tukey algorithm for the complex-exponential Fourier transform."
"A modification of the conventional design method for pulse-type sequential logic is developed in which threshold gates are used in all of the combinational portions of the circuit. The canonical configuration, memory element employed, tabular design aids, etc., found in the conventional method were changed as necessary in order to use more effectively the unique properties possessed by threshold elements. A theorem providing insight for threshold gate realization is given and a classification of sequential functions is discussed in order to facilitate the understanding and use of the new process. Finally, examples are presented showing a significant advantage of the present method in both gate and transistor economy over conventional design."
"An explicit method is given for determining feedback partitions (defined by Hartnanis and Stearns) from a study of state tables. This method is based on their theorem for testing whether a given partition is a feedback partition."
"One step in the synthesis procedure for realizing an asynchronous sequential switching circuit is the generation of next-state and output state equations from a simplified and coded flow table description of the circuit. The usual approach for determining these equations is to first construct a state table from the coded flow table, and then construct transition and output tables. For large flow tables this can be quite a lengthy procedure. This note describes an algorithm which simplifies the synthesis procedure for normal fundamental-mode circuits by permitting the determination of these equations without explicit construction of the state table, transition table, or output table. The algorithm has been programmed in PL/1."
"Stochastic sequential machines produced by the insertion of noise in a deterministic machine are considered; the question of the relationship between the state reduction of the machine so formed and that of the underlying deterministic machine is raised. The theorem states that, for the case of observational noise only, if the stochastic machine has stochastically distinguishable outputs, then it is reduced iff the underlying machine is reduced. Machines with additive noise are used as an example of application."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Stack automata1were introduced because they generalize the notion of a push-down store by allowing the interior of the push-down lost to be read but not changed. It turns out that this is an important family of automata for theoretical purposes. The original model included one-way and two-way, deterministic and nondeterministic versions."
"The true test for any model is its usefulness in explaining and giving an insight into the phenomena that it purports to model. Also of interest is the question of how much better this model is than its closest rival."
"The exceptional computational speed of hybrid computer systems is closely related to the performance of analog computing elements such as the dc operational amplifier. Development of these computing components has progressed at a rate comparable to that encountered in digital computer technology. One example of this progress is the described computing amplifier which utilizes an interesting mixture of discrete and integrated circuitry."
"This paper presents an analog computer technique for designing digital dead beat controllers. The method is useful for both linear and nonlinear sampled data systems. It involves the simulation of the open loop system of interest, the generation of appropriate stepwise variable input signals, and the display of the output on a multichannel oscilloscope. The author reports that a typical controller design can be evolved in less than one hour, this time including the setup of the computer, checkout, and the determination of the controller coefficients."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Methods of functional approximation for the computer solution of initial value partial differential equation problems provide a device by which these solutions can be approximated by those of initial value problems in sets of ordinary differential equations. A number of ways to achieve this have been suggested, some of them general, some of them utilizing specific properties of the equations at hand. What all these methods have in common is the fact that the solution u(x, t) of a partial differential equation in space x and time t is approximated by a function u*(a1(t), a2(t), . . ., aN(t)), where the dependence upon x is prescribed. In most applications, u* is linear in the ai(t), i.e., u*= =ai(t)fi(x). The ai(t) satisfy a set of ordinary differential equations obtained as the result of the approximation process. This system of ordinary differential equations is then integrated by classical analog or digital computer methods."
"A glass delay line content-addressed memory system is described which was designed and constructed for use with a general -purpose computing system. A functional description of the system is given along with solutions to the major problems of implementation."
"The design of a computer organization is presented for general-purpose computing with a very high tolerance of failure while taking advantage of future large-scale integration techniques. A high degree of parallel computations may be executed. The organization distributes processing logic along with memory to form \"cells.\" The architecture and operation of the cells are developed. Design aspects of the cells are presented along with software considerations of the organization."
"This paper discusses essential difficulties in calculating mean path lengths on a directed graph model of computations. This study was part of a larger study of a priori scheduling of computer programs in a parallel processing environment. Efficient approximations to mean processing time (mean path length) of programs in such an environment are given."
"A procedure is illustrated to reduce the number of classes of internal states to be considered in the state minimization problem for incompletely specified sequential machines. The procedure leads to an extension of the definition of prime compatibility classes of states. It is based on the updating of the logical closure constraints for prime classes due to previous eliminations of nonprime ones. An additional, more complex elimination mechanism is also presented."
"In this paper we consider the problem of deriving upper bounds on the number of state variables required for an n-state universal asynchronous state assignment (i.e., a state assignment which is valid for any n-state asynchronous sequential function). We will consider a special class of state assignments called SST assignments which were first derived by Liu [1] and later extended by Tracey [2]. In these assignments all variables which must change in a given transition are allowed to change simultaneously without critical races. The best universal bound known so far has been developed by Liu and requires 2so-1 state variables, where S0 = [log2n], n being the number of states, and [x] being the least integer > x. We shall show how this bound can be substantially improved. We further show that, by generalizing the state assignment to allow multiple codings for states, the bounds can be still further improved."
"This note derives a relationship between the weights of certain types of R-category linear pattern classifiers and the weights of R two-category linear pattern classifiers. With this relationship R-category classifiers can be designed with computer algorithms for two-category classifier design. Previously proposed R-category classifiers have had to be designed with special R-category classifier design aigorithms."
"A synthesis procedure must be based upon some cost function or functions. In many systems this cost function is associated with performance. But the usual cost function associated with switching circuits is associated with the cost of realization. Inspection of switching circuits indicates that many switching circuits are not used efficiently and that a measure of component efficiency is the ratio of data rate to component capacity or switching speed. The multiplex logic circuits are designed so that the above efficiency can be improved and as a consequence the number of circuits required can be substantially reduced. Special auxiliary circuits are required. The complexity of these auxiliary circuits is mentioned but not treated."
"Estimates are given for the least common denominator of rational-coefficient realizations of certain classes of multithreshold logic circuits. The result is useful in computer simulation of these functions."
"It is shown that any ternary switching function can be transformed to a completely symmetric ternary switching function in which some of the variables are repeated. The partial symmetry information inherent in a given function plays a key role in this transformation."
"The detection of hazards in combinational switching networks can be accomplished by Boolean algebra if the independence of component states during transients is taken into account. In this note, several new techniques for carrying out such analysis are introduced. It is also shown that certain ambiguities in previous analysis procedures can lead to incorrect conclusions regarding the presence of dynamic hazards."
"A recent note by Soudack [1] discusses the application of Levine's method of canonical analog programming [2] to nonlinear and time-varying differential equations. Assuming that only the ai(t) are time-varying, Soudack states that canonical programming cannot be applied to the differential equation E ai(t) piy(t) = E bj(t) piu(t) (1) unless the condition m < n-q (2) is satisfied, where q is \"the order of the highest derivative where a nonlinearity occurs, or is the highest derivative multiplied by a time-varying coefficient.\""
"Error correcting codes can be used in memories to produce perfect storage modules from components with some defects. The calculations indicate that the additional complexity of using these codes may be very profitable in increasing the yields of integrated circuit memory arrays."
"In a twisted-ring counter (a feedback shift register in which the next input digit is the complement of the outgoing digit) with three or more stages, the state diagram consists of the desired sequence and other closed sequences composed of unused states. If the counter enters one of the latter, it will not enter the desired sequence. This correspondence points out the minimum modification necessary to ensure that, whatever state the counter is in initially, it will always, in due course, enter the desired sequence. It is shown that the input stage must not be reset unless a group of stages at the opposite end, m in number, are in the 1 state, where m is the smallest integer greater than n/3 and n is the number of stages."
"Two different definitions for the operating characteristics of the S-R-T flip-flop exist in the literature. These two definitions are discussed, and it is argued that one definition is unnecessarily restrictive while the second is not only more logically correct but leads to more economical circuitry."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Perceptrons were invented in the fifties when \"learning machine\" was an exciting new concept. For a decade thereafter, there has been much describing, experimenting, and speculating about what perceptrons can and cannot do. Discussions of this topic were typically lively and vague, because the underlying model and the concepts used were rarely completely defined."
"This paper is a survey of the field of translator writing systems, i.e., those programs which are used to automate the construction of compilers. The paper systematically discusses both syntax and semantics of programming languages. Under syntax, the authors consider automatic construction of recognizers (e.g., precedence techniques) and formal studies of syntax (e. g., LR(k) grammars.) Under the general topic of semantics, the authors discuss syntax directed processors with the emphasis on code generation (e.g., META), compiler-compilers (e.g., FSL) and extendible compilers (e.g., ALGOL c and Cheatham's work)."
"In this paper the author describes the design, development, and application of a general-purpose radar and electromagnetic environment simulator, controlled by digital and analog computers. This simulator is being used at the White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) to provide direct synthesis of radar systems and their electromagnetic environment operating concurrently with missile flight simulators, range instrumentation simulations, and related test-range experiments."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The ALERT system converts preliminary high-level descriptions of computers into logic. The input to ALERT depicts the architecture of a proposed machine in a form of Iverson notation. As output, the architecture is \"compiled\" into Boolean equations, which may then be converted into standard computer circuits."
"A nonparametric procedure is developed for determining a structure for multivariate, multiclass pattern classification. The resultant classifier is in the form of a layered machine which is composed of multithreshold elements. The basic algorithm determines partitions which are parallel hyperplanes orthogonal to the feature coordinate dimensions. Inherent in the procedure is the concept of a transgenerator unit used to establish new feature dimensions such that effective partitioning can be obtained. While the choice of which classes of transgeneration units to consider is ultimately up to the user, a number of such units are suggested herein. The algorithm gives an indication as to the effectiveness of various transgeneration units and hence can also be used in an interactive manner if so desired for the actual design of a classification structure."
"This paper is a study of switching functions realizable by a single cascaded switching network composed of two-input, one-output elements where a distinct variable is applied to one input and the other receives the output of the previous element. A special type of Boolean formula called a standard cascade form is introduced with the property that all cascade realizable functions, and only these, can be written in this form. This characterization leads to a strong necessary condition on such functions: there is no consensus for any pair of its prime implicants which are, therefore, all core. It also leads to a new, efficient procedure for testing an arbitrary function f for cascade realizability. The test operates on the prime implicants of f, and yields a realization employing a particular complete set of cell types from which it is especially easy to derive any other realization using any other complete set."
"In an effort to relate various existent schools of thought, this paper describes four models of probabilistic finite-state systems, giving necessary and sufficient conditions for reciprocal describability. An algorithm for the realization (synthesis) of a stochastic sequential machine by a deterministic machine and additive noise is presented. Different definitions of equivalence are listed and related by theorems, the most important of which states that \"behavioral equivalence\" with the same cutpoints for sequence recognizers is identical to \"stochastic equivalence\" (indistinguishability) for sequence transducers. Corollaries show the import of these results to the state minimization problem. The paper composes a strong case in favor of the adoption of J. W. Carlyle's model as a unifying one."
"It is the evaluation of the subjective fidelity which is of primary importance in any communication system where humans constitute the final information receiver. A method showing how to generate grey-tone increments by computer for displaying simulation results is described. The method is based on the fact that, by over-printing well-defined characters of a commercially available chain printer, grey tones can be produced. The set of characters and the number of overprints used is presented in matrix form."
"A compact, simple code for a general-purpose incrementally controlled display system is described. The code consists of three 2-bit incremental bytes, three 4-bit state-control bytes, and a 16-bit data byte which supplies various display parameters or data."
"This short note focuses attention upon techniques for dynamic memory allocation in multiprogrammed systems which employ the addressing mechanisms of paging and segmentation. Here, event indicators and mathematical tools are presented which supply characterizations of the paging and segmentation addressing processes. It is shown that these statistical characterizations form data bases which can be used to derive Bayesian storage allocation algorithms conditionally based upon usage, demand, and processing history. It is argued that these characterizations, and algorithms similar to those constructed here, provide a flexible basis for efficient memory management in multiprogrammed, and by extension, time-shared environments. Although emphasis is directed to managing primary (main) memory residence, the techniques could be extended to govern memory management for a hierarchy of storage devices."
"A state graph (SG) is a directed graph with exactly one arc issuing from every vertex of the graph. The degree of an SG is the smallest integer d such that at most d, arcs are entering any vertex of the graph. An SG is said to be k-stable if it contains k≤1 cycles of unit length (loops) and these are the only cycles of the graph. A k-stable SG with mn vertices and degree d is called a (k, m, n)-SG if m≥k, d and if the distance from any vertex to a loop of the graph is at most n."
"The construction of a shortest feedback shift register which generates a given finite sequence is described for the cases of linear and nonlinear feedback logic. It is shown that the ratio of the number of delay elements required in the linear case to that of the nonlinear case grows without bound for proper choice of sequences."
"A Gray code counter which has an iterative and relatively simple structure is described. The code is shown to be the reflected binary Gray code, implying simple conversion of the count into binary code."
"In this correspondence an algebraic method of finding the maximum compatibility classes has been described. The two element incompatibles are expressed in the \"sum of product\" form and a function is obtained which is defined as the incompatibility function. The dual of the incompatibility function is realized, enabling us to obtain the maximum compatibility classes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper is a valuable addition to the study of sensitivity problem in the realization of switching functions with threshold devices. The definitions of threshold sensitivity and weight sensitivity are clearly presented and discussed."
"The Rabin and Scott [1] model of finite automata (both deterministic and nondeterministic) is generalized by allowing the state transitions and final state set to be functions of time. The basic line of inquiry in this paper follows the spirit of the work of Rabin and Scott. Although a few theorems in this present paper are due to Agasandjan [2], [3] who presumably initiated the study of time-variant automata, most results are the author's original contribution."
"A multitape one-way nonwriting automaton (MONA) is a finite state machine with a finite number of one-way input tapes which are advanced independently. This paper summarizes closure properties and decision problems of both deterministic and nondeterministic varieties. The family of n-ary word relations defined by deterministic (nondeterministic) n-tape MONA's is called Dn(Nn). Clearly D1 = N1 = regular sets and requires no further comment."
"This paper is written by automata theorists for automata theorists. In numerous definitions of automata, there is an \"input head\" which is expected to be positioned at one square of an \"input tape\" at all times. There is often the possibility that the automaton might cause the input head to move right, say, from the rightmost input square, before theautomaton has had a chance to do all the computation it wanted to do. Thus, \"endmarkers\"—special symbols that appear on the leftmost and rightmost input squares but are not otherwise considered part of the input-are often part of the automaton definition. This paper demonstrates that in several cases the endmarkers are unnecessary in that a class of automata with end markers recognizes only languages that are recognizable by the analogous classes of automata without one or both of the endmarkers."
"This paper describes a special analog correlator which is used for optical character recognition (OCR). The correlator is built around a special\" card capacity read only storage (CCROS)\" memory. Each bit in this CCROS memory is represented by a 1-pF capacitor, which may be removed from the circuit by appropriately punching a special Hollerith card on which is printed one plate of the capacitor. The other plate of the capacitor is printed on a printed circuit board pressed against the reverse side of the card, and the portion of the card between the two plates forms the capacitor's dielectric."
"Readers of this paper are likely to come away with too narrow a view of the little-known and little-appreciated art of assumed mode methods for solving distributed parameter system problems. The fact that only three references to these methods are cited is evidence of the wide scattering of the many papers which have appeared concerning these methods. The papers cited at the end of this review have been carefully selected to enable the reader to enter the most recent literature on a broader front. There the reader will find many more assumed mode methods than just the Galerkin method (which is the only one mentioned by Newman and Strauss). The reader will also find, contrary to an assertion by the authors, that assumed mode methods do not offer equal accuracy with fewer equations, as compared with nodal methods [1], although this possibility exists when a problem involves only a restricted class of system behaviors [2]. The literature also contains examples of nonlinear problems which have been solved on analog computers by assumed mode methods, e.g., [2], which the authors apparently had not encountered."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Large-scale integration (LSI) is four to five years old for many of us, yet we must continue to ask some very fundamental questions. Can we reach the substantial hardware cost reductions projected? How much will this impact system cost? Where is the market and how will it evolve? Will implementation problems force radical system designs? Does the key rest with automation, e.g., with simulation and testing, or rather will it depend upon our ability to design with repetitive structures? And not the least of our considerations, would a low-cost LSI provide the economic base for the solution to the many highly complex problems? This paper will attempt to focus attention upon some of the saJient issues involved in the fore-going questions."
"The arithmetic unit of a digital computing element for a proposed globally controlled, highly parallel computer having up to thousands of such computing elements is described. Because operand words are regarded as circular, and any digit position may be designated as most significant during an operation, the atom of the computing element is the digit position logic, i.e., the computing elements are themselves composed of identical modules for each digit. The entire computing element, consisting of the arithmetic unit, an 8192 bit IGFET memory, and a special purpose input unit can be packaged on a 3.75 inch by 4.5-inch ceramic substrate using beam lead integrated circuits."
"Large-scale integration of adaptive-element building blocks, in a small number of monolithic silicon structures, leads to a degree of freedom and versatility in organizing computing structures that has never before existed. The definition of the function of an adaptive-separation computer is examined, block diagrammed, and repetitive computations are defined. These are then partitioned to define building blocks to be fabricated by large-scale integration (LSI) of arrays of metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) into two basic structures, a serial/parallel multiplier chip and a special-purpose shift register chip. Consideration must be given to the problems of compatibility between these chips and the remainder of the adaptive computer."
"LSI will have a profound effect on the design of computer systems ranging from evolutionary changes in implementation to revolutionary changes in basic architecture. This paper discusses a computer composed of an array of processors. Entire wafers are used, rather than wafers diced into chips. The computer utilizes software to substitute process elements for the purpose of compensating for imperfect yield on the wafer. The computer organization possesses a property called block orientation which permits the use of whole LSI wafers with low yields without requiring a secondary metalization manufacturing step. Through the use of a unique computing algorithm, the parallelism and communication problems inherent to array processors are minimized. Processing systems of the sort discussed can possess a self-healing capability."
"As a direct consequence of large-scale integration, many advantages in the design, fabrication, testing, and use of digital circuitry can be achieved if the circuits can be arranged in a two-dimensional iterative, or cellular, array of identical elementary networks, or cells. When a small amount of storage is included in each cell, the same array may be regarded either as a logically enhanced memory array, or as a logic array whose elementary gates and connections can be \"programmed\" to realize a desired logical behavior."
"A high-speed carry circuit for binary parallel adders is described. The circuit consists of emitter followers connected in series to form a transmission path for carry signals obtained from the individual bits of the adder."
"The concept of the two-dimensional (2-D) parallel computer with square module arrays was first introduced by Unger. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the relative merits of square and hexagonal module arrays, to propose an operational symbolism for the various basic hexagonal modular transformations which may be performed by these comupters, to illustrate some logical circuit implementation, and to describe a few elementary applications."
"The binary rate multiplier is a device which has been used for many years in hybrid computing (operational digital techniques) and control systems as a means for generating a pulse train of average frequency proportional to the value of a binary number stored in a register. In general, the pulse spacing is irregular and the number of pulses generated in a given time fluctuates above and below the number which would be produced by a perfectly regular pulse train at the same average frequency. These fluctuations constitute a short-term frequency error, the value of which is an important parameter in the design of pulse rate digital systems incorporating binary rate multipliers. This article analyzes the conditions under which maximum positive and negative errors occur, and expressions are derived from which the magnitude of such errors may be calculated."
"For very fast function generation with small fixed-point digital computers, the n-bit argument word x is split into an N-bit word representing the breakpoint abscissa Xi for table-lookup by indirect addressing, and an n-N bit word representing the interpolation difference X-Xi. The complete procedure takes only about 50 machine cycles (50 μs) for equal breakpoint intervals, and about 70 machine cycles for variable breakpoint density. A sine-cosine generator for digital or hybrid-computer simulation is exhibited as an example."
"A method is presented for finding the amplitude distribution of the sum of the contents of more than n stages of a feedback shift register connected with feedback over n stages. The analysis illustrates the causes of the skew distributions observed in practice. Some theoretical results are presented."
"This paper discusses some aspects of hazards in asynchronous sequential circuits. In particular, methods of hazard detection and correction are given for the analysis of circuits 1) designed by criteria other than hazard prevention, and/or 2) in which upper and lower bounds may be placed on delays. A natural ordering for sequential hazards is introduced as a basis for the procedures."
"To be of general value, a digital fault diagnosis method must be able to handle intermittent and multiple faults."
"Dr. Dwyer's first three comments appear to be correct observations on the general subject of testing and diagnosis, although the initial statement in his second comment is incorrect (see [1], first paragraph of Section II-A, page 353)."
"Dr. Kautz references his statement that multiple faults can in principle be handled by his method, a point that is beyond dispute."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper is little more than a rehash of well-known results, mostly from the paper of Bartee and Schneider (Information and Control, vol. 6, pp. 79-98, 1963) and from Elspas (IRE Trans. Circuit Theory, vol. CT-6, pp. 45-60, 1959). The former is not even referenced. Standard algebraic theorems, notably the Cayley-Hamilton theorem, and well-known results on companion matrices are (unnecessarily) demonstrated when a reference to, e. g., Birkhoff-Mac-Lane would have sufficed. Fig. 2 of this paper is identical to a figure on page 117 of W. W. Peterson, Error Correcting Codes (Cambridge, Mass.: M.I.T. Press, and New York: Wiley, 1961). One wonders why this paper was written at all, and what kind of review procedure it did (or did not) receive."
"Recently there has been a great deal of study of measures of computational complexity. In light of the results of Blum [1] yielding speedup theorems for abstract complexity measures, and the lack of any general agreement as to reasonable complexity measures, there is reason to study even artificial complexity measures, such as the number of tape reversals on a one-tape Turing machine, which lack intuitive appeal but do lead to some amusing results. The present paper, which should be read in connection with [2], provides the usual Hartmanis-Stearnstype speedup theorem [3] for off-line one-tape Turing machines; namely, the appropriate reversal complexity classes associated with f(x) and cf(x) are the same for any constant c>0. The proofs are based on straightforward applications of the notion of crossing sequences [4]."
"The integrated circuit technology is still in the process of growth and evolution. The full impact of this technology on future logical design methods is yet to come. At this point one can only wonder whether the future digital circuits will be designed in the form of strictly cellular arrays or in the form of IC circuit packages of standard \"cell types\" with customized metallization interconnection, or a hybrid combination of these together with cellular or noncellular \"programmable logic arrays.\" Whatever might be the form, it seems rather certain that a basic problem common to all these approaches is the problem of designing complex logical building blocks. These blocks become the basic cells of the cellular arrays, the basic \"functional units\" for the customized interconnection schemes, and determine the terminal control signal sets in the programmable logic arrays. Yau and Tang have addressed themselves to this important problem without specifically stating these motivations in their paper."
"\"This paper introduces a system for resource management using the concepts of 'process,' 'facility,' and 'event.' Except for the processor no attempt has been made to give serious suggestions for the policy to be followed for resource allocation. However, a basic framework is provided in which a system analyst can express solutions to resource management problems."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In the conventional approach to the serial solution of the one-dimension diffusion equation using continuous space-discrete time (CSDT) techniques, there is a large amount of positive feedback in the resultant analog programming. For all practical purposes, the presence of this positive feedback makes the conventional analog method useless."
"This paper describes the design of the processing element (PE) of I IV, a parallel processing computer consisting of 256 PE's, each with an associated 2048 word memory. Each PE-memory combination with its data-dependent controls is a computer in itself, devoid of those controls common to all PE-memory combinations, such as instruction decoding, instruction look-ahead, etc."
"The problem of choosing a standard circuit package with which to realize a given logic design can be solved for threshold logic design by the use of majority gates. However, the use of asymmetric threshold gates allows substantial improvements in the amount of logic done per signal pin of the circuit package. Examples are given, illustrating savings in logic design effort, total cost of integrated circuit packages, and total cost of printed circuit boards."
"Two vector operators θ and γ are introduced. The next-state operator θ allows one to calculate the successors of a set of states {G} from a binary nonlinear feedback shift register. The past-state operator γ allows one to calculate the predecessors of a set of states {G}. Both of these operators, which can be easily programmed on a digital computer, can be used to analyze autonomous and nonautonomous feedback shift registers. Analysis procedures using these operators are given for determining the cycle set of an arbitrary nonlinear FSR, for deciding if the state diagrams of the FSR are connected or strongly connected, and also for determining if the FSR is controllable."
"In this paper, we extend the partition theory developed by Hartmanis and Stearns for synchronous sequential circuits to asynchronous sequential circuits. A method which utilizes the concept of partition pairs to obtain single transition time asynchronous state assignments with reduced dependence is presented. Parallel and serial decompositions of asynchronous sequential circuits are also considered. Single transition time and multiple transition time serial decompositions are discussed and procedures for obtaining such decompositions are presented."
"Most switching functions are not realizable by a single cascade of 2-input 1-output switching elements, even if repeated inputs are allowed. However, arrays of such cascades feeding a single collector cascade of AND or OR cells can be used to synthesize any function. This paper is concerned with optimal array realizations of this form."
"A finite state machine (FSM) is said to have finite memory μ if μ is the least integer such that yk= f(Xk, Xk-1,... Xk-μ, Yk-1, ... μk-μ) where ykand Xkrepresent the output and input at time k. If no such μ exists, then by convention the memory is said to be infinite. It has been observed [1] that if the memory of a p-nary input, q-nary output n-state minimal nondegenerate FSM is finite, then the memory μ is bounded as follows: Recently, considerable attention has been devoted to the study of the upper bound on μ [2]-[5]. In this paper we examine the lower bound on μ. We show that the lower bound is tight for all positive integers n and certain values of p and q. We also show that when n = 4k, k a positive integer, there exist binary input, binary output minimal FSMs with minimal memory. It will be seen that this is equivalent to showing that for all positive integers μ there exist binary input, binary output minimal FSMs with the maximum number of states n=22μ. Finally, we enumerate the equivalence classes of these finite memory machines with memory μ and n = 22μstates."
"With regard to a recent paper1on computer-aided design, the author and her readers may be interested in some parallel observations and in some unique extensions of capabilities now nearing completion here."
"I find Mr. McKay's comments very interesting. Time has always been the biggest problem of simulations. However, cost versus time must also be considered. I would like to see a configuration figure of Mr. McKay's system and some form of cost versus time comparisons. Our limited experiences with \"dedicated\" systems tend to indicate a loss of flexibility and a greater cost versus time comparison."
"In the November 1968 issue of this TRANSACTIONS, the author's paper \"Automatic packaging of computer circuitry,\"1was referenced in the short note, \"Comments on 'An Algorithm for Synthesis of Multiple-Output Combination Logic',\" by E. S. Davidson and G. Metze.2This reference might give the impression that the paper gives a procedure for packaging logic on functionally packaged circuits. This is not the case."
"We thank C. H. Haspel for pointing out our error with respect to his packaging procedure. We further basically agree with him as to the trend of logic design toward more logically complex modules. However, we do not share his optimism with regard to the capability of functional decomposition techniques in treating modules of the expected complexity. Rather we envision the evolution of functionally, instead of logically, oriented system design techniques which would perform intermodular design. Intramodular design would then be performed by some such technique as NAND decomposition."
"The experiment reported in this paper is a study directed at environment. The experiment involved interpretative execution of selected programs to obtain a time sequence of page references for various page sizes, and subsequent simulation based on these statistics to determine the variation in the programs' paging behavior with the amount of real memory allocated under the discipline of two separate replacement algorithms. Although the authors state that the experiment involved four different programs, only the results for one of these, the SNOBOL compiler, are discussed at length in the paper. One other program is covered in a single paragraph and the other two are not included at all because, the authors explain, the results obtained were similar to the SNOBOL case."
"Suppose we have a computer system in which essentially all information is grouped for storage allocation purposes into fixed-length multiple word information units called pages. Suppose this system is being multiprogrammed or time-shared under the control of an appropriate supervisor system. For added flexibility and for implementing a so-called virtual memory (or one-level store), it is desirable to be able to execute programs without their being wholly in main memory. (Major examples of these systems include the Multics system of Project MAC and IBM's TSS system.) The following general problem arises. Which pages of a program to be executed are to be loaded into main memory: a) just prior to execution, and b) at those subsequent instants during program execution when it is decided to bring in other pages because of references outside the initial set of pages? It is in this context that demand paging is defined and discussed by the authors whose paper is being reviewed here. (A related problem involves the decision as to which pages should be replaced, when this is necessary. Belady1 has made a detailed study of this latter problem.)"
"A primary objective of modern computer systems is to enable a user to program problems whose storage requirements may exceed the system's capacity, without imposing on him the intricate responsibilities of storage management. Thus, an essential service provided by these computer systems is automatic management of storage (termed \"dynamic storage allocation\"). There are two important aspects involved in implementing this service: the mechanisms by which it may be provided, and the policies for using the mechanisms. This paper classifies the dynamic storage allocation systems according to the possible ways in which they approach these two aspects."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Of all the basic environmental variables, only humidity has resisted simple, reliable measurement. Hygrometric elements have always had limitations in their useful application, especially with regard to their inability to be stable and durable. Here, the rationale behind the development of a capacitive-type sensor is presented along with the functional and electrical characteristics to encourage confidence in the basic mechanism."
"Moisture control is recognized to be an exceedingly important process control variable, especially when compared to advances in measurement and control of other process variables. This paper explores the range of instrumentation techniques available and focuses particular attention on a conductivity technique employed in measuring dew point temperatures. A background of investigative efforts in moisture film formation is given and the development of a dew temperature transducer from this basic work is described. A general survey of present applications is presented, as well as a discussion of possible future applications."
"The basic principles of fluid resistance thermometers are briefly stated, and the principles of the fluid oscillator types of temperature sensors are discussed in detail. The physical phenomena making an oscillator temperature-sensitive are covered including the edgetone effect and edgetone cavity coupling. It is pointed out that choked flow is required if the same modes of edgetone and cavity frequencies are to remain coupled over a large temperature range. Very fortunately this same condition (choked flow) makes the oscillator pressure insensitive."
"The Maxwell commutated dc bridge is analyzed, physically and mathematically. It is shown to have advantages as a signal processing circuit capable of reflecting the value of a capacitive transducer in proportional values of an active variable, current or voltage, and of providing indication or doing work. In particular, the circuit is shown to be applicable to capacitive unknowns having significant, finite series or parallel resistances; this contrasts with the contention of the classical references on the circuit. Also, the formerly widely used driven switch mechanism is replaced by a crystal-oscillator-driven solid-state switch, thus enhancing the reliability of the system. Experimental results for a representative circuit with both ideal and lossy capacitive unknowns conclude the paper."
"Man has used models since prehistoric times to represent various aspects and functions of his known and even of his unknown environment. He appears to need these models as conceptual crystallization centers, to adjust himself to his environment and as tools to control it. In learning, he readjusts the structure and detail of these models to match specific needs and chooses between various analogies in different media-including that of purely mathematical formulation. For control purposes, he predicts on the basis of such model behavior the probable effects of any control and chooses the mode and magnitude of his actions. This paper covers recent developments in this field of control."
"A sensitive and efficient piezoresistive element is described. It is constructed of p-type silicon mounted on an electro-mechanical substrate, and thus is easy to handle and apply where the measurand can be reduced to a force of about 10 grams. This device, the PIXIE, is linear, low noise, relatively inexpensive, and can stand large overloads."
"A digital pressure transducer has been developed utilizing a precision 5 MHz piezoelectric quartz resonator. The circular resonator exhibits linear changes in frequency when subjected to radial compressive stresses. A cylindrical quartz tube, integral with the circular resonator, acts as a diaphragm and transfers and concentrates the stress from the applied pressure onto the periphery of the resonator. Since the tube and resonator are fabricated from a single quartz crystal, nonelastic effects are minimized. The transducer has a dynamic range of 107and a pressure range of 0 to 104psia."
"An approach to the mechanization of an analog electrical-to-fluidic transducer using carrier circuit techniques is described. Design details for a laboratory breadboard model are given along with test results. Mechanical design is based on the use of a bender-type piezoelectric assembly, driven by dc voltage controlled microelectronic oscillators. Several questions, regarding feasibility of the approach such as size of the transducer, electrical input voltage level, and electrical power level are resolved favorably by the results of breadboard model testing. Consideration is given to inclusion of an inverted acoustic horn for signal intensification."
"Variations of a current-difference circuit for making impedance measurements were investigated theoretically and several modifications were tested. The circuit is based on the use of a dc meter and four diode rectifiers. It can compare two impedances, while maintaining alternating current flow through both impedances. The latter characteristic makes the circuit applicable to the measurement of resistance of electrolytic conductivity cells where asymmetric polarization is to be avoided. The comparison is not inherently dependent on a ratio established by a pair of resistors or by a pair of transformer windings. The circuit can compare impedances of similar phase angle, for example, two resistors, two inductors, or two capacitors. It can also compare impedances or admittances of different phase angle. This latter characteristic is of value, for example, in the measurement of the resistance component of electrolytic conductivity cells where there may be a small series reactance component as the result of symmetrical polarization. The precision of this simple circuit appears satisfactory for many practical applications of electrolytic conductivity measurement. The utility of the circuit is based to a large extent on the good characteristics of diodes now available."
"The variable delay and processing of RF and microwave signals is a current problem of considerable importance both for the many military applications in radar and electronic counter-measures and for the civilian applications in signal processing. The very low velocity of acoustic waves, as compared to the propagation velocity of electromagnetic signals, permits the fabrication of physically compact systems capable of storing and processing electromagnetic signals. Among the several suggestions for obtaining a continuously variable delay, the use of the laser-acoustic interaction has been shown to be among the most promising."
"A number of researchers have reported work of varying degrees of success in determining mechanical hardness by magnetic means. The methods reported fall into the two categories of static testing (dc) or dynamic testing (ac). This paper describes a method of testing which is named the \"differential\" method. Since mechanical hardness is affected by many factors, several of which have no effect on magnetic properties, a universal hardness tester operating on magnetic properties would be impossible to develop; however, this paper describes how a magnetic means is employed to compare the hardness of a given material to a sample of the same material of known hardness. Test results are presented for carbon steel (AISI 1095) and alloy steel (AISI 4150)."
"An alternative method for determining the angular position of a rotating shaft is introduced. The required information is obtained from the envelopes of a modulated carrier at the stator terminals of an ac servomechanism. Essentially, a single-phase constant amplitude carrier signal is applied to the rotor winding; with zero stator current, the amplitude of the transformed carrier at any stator winding depends on the cosine of the angle between the rotor and stator windings, provided the ratio of rotor speed to carrier frequency is small. The stator envelopes may be decoded by analog methods to give a single analog signal calibrated to indicate the shaft position within a 360° range. An example of the application of this method to static drives for ac machines is included."
"The liquid metal fast breeder reactor (LMFBR) program is discussed with particular emphasis on the instrumentation and control elements. The near and long term requirements and their relationship to the specific project comprising the LMFBR program are outlined with respect to the current state of the art and the critical problems that still must be resolved. An overall description of the Atomic Energy Commission's LMFBR instrumentation development program is described with a more detailed discussion of a few of the specific projects comprising the program."
"A method is presented for increasing the accuracy of position and velocity detecting systems which make use of pattern recognition principles. The basic limitation of these systems is due to the binary nature of receptor elements which causes the receptor to have a nonlinear transfer characteristic."
"In many control or instrumentation circuits, a resistance wire temperature sensor is often used to measure the environmental temperature. Because the sensor current itself can change the resistance of the sensor, it is essential that the current required in the sensing circuitry does not cause excessive heating of the sensing element. The power loss caused by any current in the resistance sensor will always produce some change in resistance; a specific value for self-heating current is meaningful only when related to a specified percent deviation from the zero current resistance."
"An X-band reflex klystron is modified for a highly sensitive pickup sensor for an accelerometer and a seismometer application. Seismometer sensitivity of 460 μJ are recorded with potential accelerometer sensitivity of 2 μg indicated in this preliminary test."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A mathematical model of the permanent magnet stepping motor is developed and experimentally verified. Linearized equations which allow the motor to be expressed in terms of a damping ratio and natural frequency are developed for a single step response. Multistep motor operation, when driven by a current source, is analyzed using phase plane techniques. Failure of a stepping motor to follow a fixed stepping rate command is analyzed. Dimensionless curves showing maximum stepping rate as a function of motor parameters and applied load torque are derived and experimentally verified."
"The fundamental problem in applying fuses for the protection of semiconductor devices is that of ensuring that the fault energy let-through of the fuse comes within the withstand of the device under the circumstances in which both are used in service. Great progress has been made during the last few years towards this end but more study is urgently needed."
"It is well known that common boilers and similar thermal processes for the bulk heating of liquids can become unstable, when closed-loop controlled, if the controller and/or the controlled-variable transducer location are chosen arbitrarilly. This paper describes a new facile technique for readily determining the boundary conditions for stability when selecting controllers or locating transducers. The presentation is intended for the professional engineer engaged in the control of boilers and liquid-heating processes in industry."
"Common thermal processes, such as fluid heaters, heat-treatment plant, boilers, dryers, vats, etc., can conveniently be modeled by first-order transit-delayed equations. These processes are widely used in industry where they are usually discontinuously controlled by on-off or on-half-off controllers. Often the heating rates and cooling rates of such processes differ significantly. This hinders the evaluation of their performance indices, yet the accurate evaluation or prediction of these performance indices is an important step in the design (or selection) of controllers for such processes. This paper presents a new, yet simple, analysis of the mode-dependent performance indices of these controlled processes. New phaseplane displays are presented that provide useful conceptual insights into their startup, shutdown, and limit-cycling performance. This paper is intended for the professional engineer engaged in the design and control of these processes, and the presentation is practical rather than mathematical."
"Recently (1967-69) three papers have been published on the on-off control of temperature in industrial processes. They reported results that appeared to conflict, and this subsequently caused confusion in industrial control circles. This paper critically examines these papers and shows that two are complementary while the third is misleading. New results are reported that cover deficiencies in all three papers. The presentation is intended for the professional engineer concerned with the control of industrial plant, rather than the control scientist."
"A straightforward approach to the utilization of digital computers in design is described. The choice of a performance index is discussed as well as the search procedure to be used in seeking the component values which minimize this index. A realistic example of a pressure transducer is presented. The computer is used to choose compensating capacitors for the associated bridge circuitry with the objective of obtaining a linear (voltage versus pressure), temperature-independent response. The results are excellent both in terms of good design and reduction of design effort."
"This paper describes a bridge circuit which was designed to perform a comparison between a temperature which is the controlled variable in a feedback control system, and a reference input or set point value. The feedback system was designed to control a certain heat transfer process."
"This paper describes a feedback system designed to control the surface temperature of a metallic body immersed in a boiling liquid. The process is inherently unstable in one of its three regions of operation; however, under automatic feedback control, stable and precise operation is obtained in all regions. The surface temperature can be accurately maintained at any desired steadystate level in any region of process operation, and sine-wave or transient variations in temperature can be obtained when the system is driven from an electrical signal generator."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Comments are made on where process control language standardization is now and where it should go from here."
"After discussing computer language successes and failures, the job of applying a computer to a process and the effect of language on this is considered. A review of the characteristics that a language should have, with particular attention to the kinds of programmers involved in process control computing, is presented. Next, a new, nonalogrithmic approach to programming is described and finally, the conclusion is made that a single standard language is unlikely."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This standard establishes general principles for rating electric apparatus for short-time, intermittent, or varying duty. The four methods used for rating equipment are covered by the standard: the continuous rating method; the continuous plus short-time overload rating method or nominal rating method; the short-time rating method; and the periodic rating method."
"This document has been prepared as a guide for technical committees to use when standards are being prepared or revised, with the object of obtaining consistency, as far as practicable, among the standards for various kinds of electric equipment, which must often operate under the same service conditions. Service conditions are specified to give the limiting conditions of operation for which standard equipment is designed. For example, ambient temperature values should be selected which, in combination with standard temperature rises, limit total insulation temperatures to suitable values. By specifying a limiting ambient value in service conditions, a readily usable simple means of stating conditions for which standard ratings are suitable is provided. This document consists of two parts. As far as possible selections should be made from Part I for the statement of service conditions for particular equipment standards. For uniformity it is suggested that the exact wording be used where it applies. Part II covers application and testing. Selections from this part are recommended for inclusion as supplementary information to specific standards where applicable and desirable."
"It is the purpose of this Recommended Practice to define acceptable methods of testing electrical insulation in flight electric equipment. Test procedures are recommended for inspection of equipment electrical insulation to determine its flight worthiness after service, repair, and/or periods of storage. This Recommended Practice is intended only as a guide to acceptable procedure. It is not intended to be used as a test specification for specific equipment. The values of test voltages and other test conditions for specific equipment are always determined by the procurement specification for that particular equipment.<<ETX>>"
"This standard pertains to power transformers and inductors that are used in electronic equipment and supplied by power lines or generators of essentially sine wave or polyphase voltage. Guides to application and test procedures are included. Appendices contain certain precautions, recommended practices, and guidelines for typical values. Provision is made for relating the characteristics of transformers to the associated rectifiers and circuits. Certain pertinent definitions relating to transformers and transformer applications, which have not been found elsewhere, are included with appropriate discussion. Attempts are made to alert the industry and profession to factors that are commonly overlooked. This standard includes, but is not limited to, the following specific transformers and inductors: rectifier supply transformers for either high- or low-voltage supplies; filament and cathode heater transformers; transformers for alternating current resonant charging circuits; inductors used in rectifier filters; autotransformers with fixed taps.<>"
"Two standard methods for field-strength measurement are described. The standard-antenna method consists of measuring the received power or open-circuit voltage developed in a standard receiving antenna by the field to be measured and computing the field strength from the measured voltage and the dimensions and form of the standard antenna. The standard-field method consists of comparing voltages produced in an antenna by the field to be measured and by a standard field, the magnitude of which is computed from the dimensions of the transmitting antenna, its current distribution, the distance of separation, and effect of the ground. The measurement procedures are outlined, including calibration of commercial field strength and extension of the methods to microwave frequencies. Methods for measuring power radiated from an antenna under several different conditions are briefly presented, and the important considerations for securing useful and accurate measurements are described."
"Uniform measurement procedures and techniques are provided for determining the effectiveness of room-sized, high-performance electromagnetic shielding enclosures at frequencies from 14 kHz to 18 GHz (extendable to 50 Hz and 100 GHz, respectively). The types of enclosures covered include single-shield or double-shield structures of various constructions such as bolted demountable, welded, or integral with building, and made of materials such as steel plate, copper or aluminum sheet, screening hardware cloth, or metal foil. The intent is to reflect current practice and to provide a common reference for suppliers and users on the performance of shielding enclosures."
"Provides standardised methods of determining the electrical parameters of charging inductors used in radar transmitters, linear particle accelerators, and similar equipment, and provides a standard testing procedure.<<ETX>>"
"This IEEE standard provides uniform and acceptable terms for use in the application of solar cells to power systems. The terms are useful in unifying expressions used in engineering writing and in the preparation of specifications and procurement documents. It is expected that this standard will be most useful to persons not expert in the solar cell field.<<ETX>>"
"This specification defines the requirements for a single-degree-of-freedom spring-restrained rate gyro for [aircraft, missile, spacecraft,______] applications. The rate gyro shall be capable of providing [(dc, ac) voltage outputs proportional to angular rate inputs up to______ degrees per second, a switch closure(s) at angular rates (exceeding,less than)______ (+,−,)______ degrees per second]. An errata is available at http://standards.ieee.org/findstds/errata/292-1969.pdf"
"Definitions of 48 terms are accompanied by a list of 38 letter symbols and the standard crossed-rectangle-in-circle-with-crosswires circuit symbol, with the colour code for lead wires to p-type and n-type Hall generators.<<ETX>>"
"This standard applies to precision electrical resistors exhibiting a high degree of stability and intended for use as reference standards in accurate direct-current resistance measurements. It does not apply to resistors which are intended for use solely as circuit components.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Studies sponsored by NASA at the Center for Research, Inc., University of Kansas, in cooperation with several other universities and government research agencies have substantiated the applicability of remote sensing to many fields within the earth sciences, agriculture, and oceanography [1]. The purpose of this paper is to show how the properties of radar are used to provide geoscience information."
"Determination of the presence or absence of lunar subsurface water appears possible, from a satellite in orbit around the moon or from lunar surface measurements, by the use of inductive electromagnetic techniques. A number of plane-layered models of the moon have been analyzed to obtain values of reflection coefficient, surface impedance, apparent dielectric constant, and apparent conductivity, computed for a normally incident plane wave at frequencies in the range 104 to 108 Hz. The variation of these quantities with frequency is markedly dependent on the presence or absence of sub-surface water (in either liquid or \"permafrost\" form); that is, a fraction of one percent of water, for a wide range of materials that might exist on the moon, yields characteristic signals. The detection depth for the water-bearing layer (if it exists) ranges from tens of meters to at least one kilometer, depending on the characteristics of the layers; results for representative models are displayed. For certain lunar models an equipment resolution of at least as good as + 1 dB is required."
"The Engineering Geoscience Group of the University of California at Berkeley has been active for the past few years in the measurement and interpretation of geomagnetic and geoelectric data in the range 10-3 to 10 Hz. To facilitate the acquisition of field data, as well as to develop a convenient, practical, and economic field procedure, the group has assembled a complete array of equipment into one large van, which, with its own power supply, can be quickly and easily moved from one site to another. The field sensors consist of three induction coils to measure field variations and expendable electrodes for earth-current measurements. Conventional amplifiers, integrators, and bandpass filters are used to treat the data prior to recording. To keep up with the development of advanced techniques of statistical analysis, the recording system has as its major unit a fourteen-channel digital incremental magnetic tape recorder capable of recording up to ten samples per second. An eleven-channel analog FM magnetic tape recorder is available for use when high-frequency field variations are present, and an analog paper chart record provides a means of continuously monitoring the activity throughout the experiment. Calibration is carried out on site with the use of a portable calibration coil. The digitally recorded data are in a simple format compatible with the computer facilities at Berkeley to permit rapid preliminary analysis while the equipment is still in the field."
"This paper discusses the ILLIAC IV computer and its application to seismic signal-processing problems. ILLIAC IV, now being fabricated by the Burroughs Corporation, will be operational at the University of Illinois' Computer Science Department in 1970. ILLIAC IV is an array of 256 coupled high-speed digital computers; as such, it has the capacity to execute algorithms 256 times faster than present-day computers. Achievement of large speedup factors, however, is dependent upon \"structuring\" an algorithm into groups of (nominally, 256) identical computations. As an aid to the programmer, the Tranquil language is being designed with certain common statements, such as matrix operations, prestructured to provide for the parallel execution of code on many pieces of data. These, as well as other aspects of the ILLIAC IV system and the Tranquil language, are described in the first part of this paper. The second part of the paper discusses the structuring of common signal-processing algorithms, such as beam forming, convolution, and fast Fourier transform for ILLIAC IV parallel computation. It is shown that, in a great variety of situations, the full speedup factor, 256, can be obtained."
"This paper describes the results of an investigation which shows that a considerable reduction in the testing time required for a standard laboratory soil-moisture test can be effected by using microwave ovens instead of thermal ovens to dry the samples. It is shown that both the load voltage standing wave ratio of the oven, as well as the temperature of the sample, can be used as guides to estimate the exposure time required to obtain a properly dried sample. Typical exposure times obtained were 3 minutes at 2 kW and 30 minutes at 200-watt source power levels, for sample weights of about 200 to 300 grams with 25 to 30 percent initial moisture content. The results of moisture tests made on this basis agree within ±0.5 percent with those obtained using the conventional technique employing thermal oven drying."
"Studies of the statistical data of wind velocities at various altitudes indicate that the orthogonal components of wind at the same altitude are practically independent of each other statistically and each component is approximately normally distributed. On the other hand, these data also indicate that there is a linear regression of each orthogonal component at one altitude on that at a different altitude. This property of linear regression can be used for the prediction of wind velocities at all altitudes knowing the velocity at one altitude, the regression coefficients, and the average wind profiles. The uncertainties and the confidence level of the prediction are discussed. Possible application is indicated. Mathematical representation of the wind profiles and the regression coefficients are mentioned briefly."
"Considerable interest exists, especially within the geoscience community, in utilizing existing spacecraft as carriers for geoscience-oriented remote sensors. Consequently, effort is underway to select instruments suitable for different sizes of spacecraft and to determine operational constraints. This paper points out that imaging radar systems can be employed on a smaller spacecraft than many have thought possible."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This index covers the papers appearing in IEEE Transactions on Geoscience Electronics since its inception in 1963. Covers Vols. 1-6 (1963-1968)."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Orbiting Geophysical Observatories are systems designed to fulfill a primary objective of conducting large numbers of significant, diversified experiments for making scientific and technological measurements within the earth's atmosphere, the magnetosphere, and cislunar space to obtain a better understanding of earth-sun relationships and the earth as a planet. Configured to meet scientific requirements, the observatories include six appendages of different lengths for experiments requiring locations at a distance from the main body. Five degrees of freedom allow the capability of continuously orienting solar and antisolar, geocentric and antigeocentric, and orbital experiments within relatively close limits. Designed to include five basic subsystems of structure, stabilization and control, power, communications and data handling, and thermal control, the observatories have well-defined interfaces for experiments. Five of the six observatories in the program have already been launched and have returned significant scientific information. The last observatory is scheduled for launch in Spring 1969. Weights of the observatories range from 1073 to 1400 lb, including as many as 390 lb of experiments. One hundred six experiments have already been orbited on the five spacecraft, with 26 experiments scheduled for the last mission. Orbits have included three highly eccentric orbits inclined initially approximately 31° and two low-altitude nearly circular polar orbits. The orbit for the last mission, OGO-F, is of the latter type."
"The OGO triaxial search coil magnetometer measures naturally occurring magnetic fluctuations between 0.01 Hz and ~1000 Hz in the space around the earth. The instrument design is described and the design rationale discussed. The results of the observations on the first five OGO spacecraft in the magnetosphere, magnetotail, magnetosheath, and interplanetary medium, as well as at hydromagnetic bow shock, are summarized and discussed."
"An experiment, which has been developed for flight on an Orbiting Geophysical Observatory in polar orbit (OGO-F), is described. Measurements will be made of the electron flux and spectra above 30 keV, both for precipitating and locally mirroring electrons as well as atmospheric backscatter. The scientific purposes, detector and electronic systems, packaging, thermal design, internal calibration, and test philosophy are discussed. This paper emphasizes the design features and philosophy used in the development, fabrication, and testing of the experiment in order to try to ensure a long, useful lifetime in space."
"An experiment is described which will extend the frequency range over which \"whistler-mode\" waves have been observed in the ionosphere. The experiment uses an electric dipole antenna and will therefore also detect the essentially purely electric waves associated with the lower hybrid resonance noise bands. Emphasis is on broad-band observations which are made in the bands 0.01-15, 15-30, 92.5-107.5, and 280-295 kHz. The experiment also includes two narrow-band receivers (at 200 and 540 kHz) and a subsystem to measure the antenna impedance at four frequencies (8, 24, 104.5, and 285 kHz)."
"The objective of this experiment is to monitor the cosmic-ray neutron flux over a large region of space near the earth for an extended time with a simple neutron monitor. The basic detecting system to measure the integrated neutron flux from 10-8 to 15 MeV consists of a moderated He3 proportional counter surrounded by a charged-particle rejection system. A plastic scintillator viewed by a photomultiplier is operated in coincidence with the neutron counter to determine the energy spectrum and flux in the 1-10 MeV range. In order to minimize contributions from neutrons produced within the OGO spacecraft, the sensor is located about 4.5 meters out on the EP-5 boom. The experiment includes an in-flight calibrator to check pulse discriminator levels on neutron and charged-particle channels and a calibration-loop system to compensate for changes in the photo-multiplier gain. The mean neutron detection efficiency for the expected neutron energy spectrum over the energy range 10-8-15 MeV is 1.8 cm2. The weight of the neutron sensor is 2.58 kg, with a length of 0.314 meter and a diameter of 0.111 meters. The total power requirements are 4.5 watts."
"The ion spectrometer aboard OGO-V is a most versatile instrument for topside ionospheric and magnetospheric investigations. The concentration profiles of O+, He+ and H+ ions are obtained in the topside ionosphere with excellent spatial resolution and with a sensitivity sufficient to measure less than 1 ion/cm3. The dynamic range of the instrument is better than 8 orders of magnitude. These functions are accomplished with an absolute minimum of telemetry bandwidth. The instrument also functions as an energetic particle analyzer and is capable of measuring energy distributions of protons from 0 to 600 eV. The bow shock crossings of the OGO-V vehicle are easily detected with the ion spectrometer and temperature measurements within the magnetosheath are obtained."
"A gas-surface energy transfer experiment for the Orbiting Geophysical Observatory, Mission F, is described. The experimentis to measure the kinetic energy flux of the upper atmosphere relative to the orbiting satellite, and what fraction of this energy is transferred at normal incidence to surfaces. Four probes that can detect energy transfer between 10 W/cm2 and 0.1 W/cm2 by the frequency change of temperature-sensitive oscillating quartz crystals are used to make the measurements. Probe accuracies of 3 percent and precision of measurements of better than 1 percent are maintained by periodic in-flight calibration of the crystal sensors. Data fromthe experiment will be used to determine the energy accommodation and drag coefficients of Al and Au, in 0 and N2, the main components of the upper atmosphere between 400 km and 1100 km, and the planned altitude range of OGO-F. The kinetic energy flux measurement, besides being used in the determination of accommodation and drag coefficients, offers a novel method for determination of the upper atmospheric density and its scale height by relating measurements of the energy flux to the satellite ephemeris."
"Accurate in situ measurements of atmospheric composition are difficult because of the locally disturbed environment resulting from the presence of the vehicle and its instruments. The quadrupole mass spectrometer described here was designed to be immersed directly into the atmosphere with minimal modification of the local environment from ambient conditions. This design represents a first attempt to develop a sweeping mass spectrometer which performs both neutral particle and positive ion concentration measurements aboard an earth satellite. An open ion source design is utilized to adapt, with minimum degradation, both kinds of particles for the filtering action of the quadrupole field. Six linear ranges of sensitivity are provided to permit complete compositional analysis between altitudes of 300 and 1000 km. The mass range is 0-50 u, and maximum sensitivities are 105 neutral particles per cm3 per volt output and 10 positive ions per cm3 per volt output. Neutral particle and positive ion measurements are made sequentially each requiring approximately 36 seconds to complete using a sweep duration of approximately six seconds. On OGO-IV this sweep duration provided a spatial resolution of 0.8 km per mass unit of sweep. Preliminary results show that the spectrometer is operating within design specifications and the signal-to-noise ratio is excellent. Geophysical interpretations of these data should aid in the formation of more definitive model atmospheres which are important in such diverse fields as weather prediction, manned space flights, and radio propagation."
"The OGO-IV ultraviolet airglow spectrometer, which measures the earth's spectrum between 1100 and 3400 Å, consists of an Ebert-Fastie monochromator and two photomultipliers with wide-dynamic range electronics. The cesium telluride photomultiplier channel measures the backscattered ultraviolet daylight between 1750 and 3400 Å over a dynamic range of 10 with a spectral resolution of 20 Å. The cesium iodide photomultiplier channel measures air-glow emission lines between 1100 and 1750 Å, even with the fully illuminated earth for a background."
"The OGO-V spacecraft includes in its payload an experiment designed to measure electric field components of electro-static and electromagnetic waves in the frequency range 200 Hz to 70 kHz, using a variety of short capacitively coupled antennas. In addition, the experiment has triaxial search coils, and on-board E-B correlations are performed to aid in distinguishing between the two types of waves. The design goals and instrumentation are described, and a brief account of the in-flight operation is presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Computational algorithms are given for the design of optimal, finite-length, convolutional filters with finite-length input sequences. Design techniques are developed for minimum-weighted-mean-square-error filters (MWMSE), for minimum-weighted-absolute-error filters (MWAE), and for filters which minimize the maximum output error (minimax). It is shown that the coefficients of the MWAE and minimax filters can be obtained by using standard linear programming methods. Next, the problem of developing a filter whose function is to \"sharpen\" a particular input waveform is considered. The filter input sequence is assumed to be derived from a Ricker wavelet of the velocity type and the desired output is the Dirac delta function. Convolutional filters are developed for this problem using each of the three performance criteria described above. The output sequences of each of the three optimal filters are discussed. It is shown that the minimax filter gives significantly better discrimination than can be obtained from either the MWAE or MWMSE filters."
"This paper proposes and describes a meteorological radar for precipitation drop size spectrum analysis and cloud studies The type of radar proposed is a millimeter wave pseudorandom coded CW radar. This radar is analyzed on both precipitation and cloud physics studies. Its expected performance is discussed and pulse compression by pseudorandom phase coding is compared with and shown, for the given constraints, to be superior to the conventional pulsed meteorological radar. The paper describes codes for CW transmitters and pseudorandom codes in particular. It describes how the codes are generated, their structure, and their usefulness. It also describes code design and how codes are used to modulate a transmitter. The overall system design is discussed including carrier frequency, Doppler frequency spread, frequency stability, and data acquisition, recording, and reduction. Two possible locked modes of system operation are described as well as experimental work suitable for such a radar."
"Acoustical ray tracing in a horizontally layered and vertically sectioned atmosphere is accomplished on a digital computer using a shifting Cartesian coordinate system. The atmosphere is divided into vertical layers. In each of these layers straight line approximations of the variation of the speed-of-sound curve with altitude are used, thereby generating a constant radius of curvature for the acoustic ray path in each layer. Sectioning of the atrnosphere is performed by allowing boundary lines to emanate outward from the earth's center through the atmosphere. Ray points are established whenever the ray path intersects either a layer boundary or a section boundary. The computer program, called RATRACE, prints the X, Y, and Z coordinates of each ray point referenced to a planar coordinate system with origin at the ray path's beginning as well as the time required for the ray to travel to each ray point. Range versus altitude and range versus drift plots are made of the ray path and the effects on these curves of variations of the initial elevation and azimuth angles of the ray are discussed."
"A miniaturized seismic refraction system has been constructed for possible use on early manned lunar landings. The detection system consists of three geophones, a three-channel amplifier, a geophone calibrator, and a logarithmic compressor system. A grenade launching device and an astronaut-held thumper staff are used as the sources of seismic energy. Seismic energy from the explosive sources is detected, amplified, logarithmically compressed, converted to digital form, and formatted for real-time transmission to earth. Total weight of the seismic detection system and ancillary electronics, exclusive of the explosive sources, is 6.25 lb."
"Essentially the entire polarization and amplitude history of certain micropulsation events recorded on magnetic tape can be presented in graphic visual form on permanent film records by the method described. Moving-film photography of a Lissajous figure swept across an oscilloscope screen results in a continuous cycle by cycle presentation of the polarization ellipse on 35-mm film in raster form, with each line of the raster synchronized to a time base on the tape."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Since the term \"remote sensing\" has such a diverse usage, each particular case studied must be fully understood before one can properly define physical laws and limitations. Thus a logical step-by-step treatment of a remote sensing problem begins with a definition of the question which is subsequently followed by the physical requirements necessary to obtain the answer. Some of the limitations are imposed by environmental factors in addition to state-of-the-art instrumentation. Although many broad types of remote sensing techniques exist, the use of the electromagnetic spectrum appears to be the most promising and rewarding. Each band of the spectrum holds its own key to unlocking a particular answer required to define the state of the object under study. In each band several parameters are on hand, such as intensity, polarization, spatial and wavelength resolution. With such an enormous multitude of data available, perhaps the single most severe limitation appears to be data handling and synthesis. The problem can be greatly alleviated if a proper model is available to treat the data by a systematic method."
"Remote sensing of the earth has been carried on for many years by the use of transient elastic waves, as in the seismic method. With the advent of optical holography and the development of high-power sonic sources and electromechanical vibrators, it is now possible to map the subsurface structure of the earth with steady-state coherent waves. This is the process of earth holography, which provides a three-dimensional optical view of the earth's interior. The basic principles of wavefront reconstruction in optics are reviewed and their application to sonic and seismic wave holography discussed. The problems of scaling and field sampling are discussed in connection with the resolution of elastic wave systems. It is shown that the sampling density required is within practical field limits for adequate resolution. Experiments were carried out with a small water tank model using frequencies in the low MHz range and small metal objects. Data were recorded on magnetic tape and subsequently displayed. The resulting holograms and photographs of the reconstructed images are shown. Synthetic holograms and reconstructions are shown and the problems of recording and display are discussed. Possible extensions of this work to large area, deep mapping of the oceans and the earth are outlined."
"Orbital survey offers great promise for the location and evaluation of the Earth's resources. To exploit that potential operationally, a system must be designed from the ground phenomena through the spacecraft and data handling to the satisfaction of user requirements. The first step planned by NASA involves the Earth resources technology satellite (ERTS); as a prototype of an operational system, the alternative concept developed here takes a significantly different form. The resources survey system (RSS) produces optical-spectrum imagery of the continental United States with both photometric and photogrammetric fidelity. The data volume is determined, and the ground processing requirements developed into a conceptual system fully loading a second-generation computer. To achieve a manageable ground system, the use of a line scanner is required; the characteristics of the sensor dictate a small spacecraft adapted to Scout or piggyback launch. Extension of the system to allow automatic signature recognition and incorporation of aircraft and ground-truth is straightforward. RSS is therefore a prototype in the sense that its limited performance can evolve without basic redesign into any foreseeable system, and operational in that its output is immediately and routinely usable both in its form and in its content."
"The state of New Jersey embarked on a drastic effort to reduce the levels of sulfur dioxide in its atmosphere. This effort, although only partially enforceable by the rules of law, is meeting with great success. Sulfur dioxide levels fell sharply from 1966 to 1967 and fell again in 1968. The first step to reduce sulfur dioxide levels was taken by Governor Hughes of New Jersey, who requested and received reports from the electric generating companies detailing their plans to lower emission of sulfur dioxide and particulates. Power plants operated by these companies are major sources of both forms of pollution. Much of the reduction in sulfur dioxide between the years 1966 and 1967 must be credited to the efforts of the Governor and the utilities. The New Jersey Air Pollution Control Program developed new codes designed to reduce emissions by limiting the amount of sulfur permitted to be burned in fuel oils and coal. The effective date of hese codes was May, 1968. The code for oils has been in effect since that time but the coal code has been held in abeyance pending the results of a suit filed against the code by coal and railroad companies."
"Since the early days of the Manhattan District, there has been concern over potential pollution from the manufacture of atomic weapons and the generation of nuclear power. With time it has become obvious that the nuclear power plants themselves are not important sources of radioactive wastes, although they can be responsible for thermal pollution, as are conventional fossil fuel burning plants. The serious problems are associated with the relatively few chemical plants in which the partially spent nuclear fuels must be reprocessed to save their \"unburned\" fuel. As the result of an unprecedented program of research and development carried out by the Atomic Energy Commission, methods have been devised and tested for turning the high-level liquid radioactive wastes into inert solids which will be buried in salt mines, and for disposing of the medium-level wastes by incorporation in asphalt or by hydraulic fracturing. The very low-level wastes, decontaminated to drinking water standards, can be safely discharged to the environment, or preferably, disposed of into deep wells."
"The evidence concerning the health effects of air pollution is briefly reviewed. In addition, new data from the Cornell Family Illness Study are used to draw a picture of the complex interactions that exist between man and his environment. Certain conclusions are drawn: 1) air pollution has definite but varying adverse effects upon health; 2) no single pollutant appears solely responsible for the effects; 3) the effects seem to come from the totality of the atmospheric environment with weather and season playing their part; 4) the effects are influenced by variations in individual habits and disease as well as by certain social determinants. A control philosophy based upon process control is described suggesting the control of emissions to the greatest extent feasible, employing the maximum technological capability. A parallel is drawn between the public health advances necessary in the past to allow the growth of the cities and the need for pollution control to allow the continued growth of technology."
"A marine acoustical data gathering system is described which consists of a planar array of 26 hydrophones supported from the surface by a spar buoy. The completely analog system is hardwired from the array through a 1500-foot down cable to the buoy and through a 4500-foot multiconductor floatable cable from the buoy to a recording vessel. The hydrophones, four environmental sensors, and subsurface electronics pressure vessel are supported by the 50-foot-diameter aluminum tube structure which could be suspended to depths of near surface to 1500 feet. Amplifiers and attenuators for processing the data prior to recording are contained in the ship-board electronics. The system was designed to record ambient noise over a bandwidth of 10 Hz to 3.0 kHz at system noise levels equivalent to sea state zero. At the same time, it was designed to have the flexibility for accommodating large signals such as those from close proximity surface vessels. The circuitry is described, and the operational capabilities of the system are illustrated."
"A study of the time variation of sea surface slope by the distribution of light on a submerged screen from a small incident laser beam is summarized. Experiments performed in the Gulf of Mexico during the summer of 1966 and the sea surface slope apparatus used are described. Methods of analysis of the resulting high speed motion picture film data, including a flying spot scanner-digital film reader and computer programs, are summarized. Results of these experiments including sea surface slope parameters versus time and subsurface power probability curves are reported. Results are compared with previous theoretical predictions and experimental data."
"An optical crossbeam technique has been developed for the remote sensing of atmospheric winds. The feasibility tests of a complete system are reported. The initial crossbeam system was found to measure atmospheric winds within ±20 percent of those measured with cup anemometers on a meteorological tower. The system consists of two telescopes (light beams) which collect light along narrow beams. The collected light is measured by photodiodes. The light is found to fluctuate in intensity due mainly to scattering by aerosols. The light source is available skylight only. The fluctuations in light are related to the convective wind velocity by employing space-time correlation techniques."
"The behavior of an artificial cloud of water droplets less than 20 μ in diameter was investigated in a cloud chamber in the presence of a quasi-uniform electrostatic field. The effect of fields below 180 V/cm upon the cloud precipitation was found negligible. Collection efficiency increased only at higher field intensities. Contrary to the case of large drops, no spark discharges were observed between droplets in fields less than 1500 V/cm. A theoretical analysis shows also that the merger of small drops in fields below 500 V/cm is not associated with drops disintegration. Electrostatic fields met in the nature should not therefore modify the precipitation of clouds composed of small uncharged droplets. High value of the required field intensity excludes also the possibility of the application of quasi-uniform electrostatic for dissipation of nonelectrified fogs."
"A two-axis miniature fluxgate magnetometer for sounding rocket applications is described. The distinctive feature is that this instrument simultaneously measures, with a single sensing element, two orthogonal components of an external magnetic field. Observed performance is accurately predicted by means of a quantitative linear mathematical model. The dependence of the output voltage on several design parameters is obtained by a Fourier analysis of the output waveform. Computer-aided analyses are presented for core materials of 4-79 Mo-Permalloy and 50-50 Ni-Fe."
"The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) uses computed satellite orbits in its geodesy program and for studies of the gravitational field and other parameters of the earth. As the accuracy of these orbits increases, so does their field of application. The measurement of temporal changes, such as continental drift or other crustal motion, is in prospect. Laser systems are providing satellite-range measurements from which orbits are computed with significantly increased accuracy. SAO uses three pulsed ruby-laser systems routinely in its worldwide network of satellite observing stations and cooperates on an international basis with other agencies who have their own systems. The 500-MW laser at Smithsonian's Mt. Hopkins Observatory in Arizona is described. This system uses currently available orbits to position the laser transmitter and receiving telescope in azimuth and altitude. The laser is pulsed at the proper epoch without the satellite's being acquired visually. The accuracy of this method of positioning, its advantages for the present application, and its future potential will be discussed."
"Investigation of the key parameters of temperature sensors suggests either platinum wire resistance sensors or thermistors. Thermistors have higher sensitivity and generally adequate stability, but have been scorned due to their nonlinear characteristics. A simple monitor is developed to linearize these nonlinear characteristics. A FORTRAN IV computer program is shown which optimizes all circuit values. The general technique should be applicable to other instrumentation problems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Half the cost of education is that of students' time; this paper suggests methods of progranmning instructional broadcast satellites to reduce this cost. For fixed satellite ERP and ground station cost, 200 audio channels could replace a TV channel. If a 100-hour course were broken into 30-minute blocks, each could be transmitted simultaneously. Students would listen through earphones and follow the course in illustrated workbooks. At the end of a block, a student would answer questions by resetting dials before him to choose the block he hears. If he answers correctly, he branches ahead; otherwise, back. Continuous 12-year sequences of math, science, and verbal skills instruction could be available. The advantages of radio programnming are that, with no ground-to-satellite feedback, a student can: 1) be obliged to actively respond, 2) have feedback on his accuracy, 3) begin at his own level, 4) advance at his own pace, 5) miss school and resume where he left off, and 6) spend extra time (weekends or evenings) without waiting for his class. Additional sections of the paper deal with frequency allocation, interference, and ground station design."
"A single carrier system capable of transmitting simultaneously the combined information content of 12 to 20 channels of television, complete with the TV carrier and the color and sound subcarriers, is presented. The system uses an original modulation system which carries the information in the width and spacing of a continuous train of pulses. The amplitude insensitivity permits extremely broad-band transmissions on an \"all-weather\" basis in the band from 10 to 10 000 GHz, millimeter to long wave infrared wave-lengths."
"The K factor of a 2T pulse waveform is usually determined by fitting the waveform into an oscilloscope mask at prescribed deflection factors. Quite often a mask is not available, or a picture of the waveform is given with amplitude and time coordinates only. For these cases a method is presented which permits the K factor to be determined algebraically."
"In the selection of a transmitting antenna, factors such as power gain, height above terrain, horizontal pattern directivity, amount of null fill, and beam tilt of the vertical pattern have to be taken into consideration to best satisfy the equipment availability and intended market coverage. A critical analysis of all these factors with possible tradeoffs is presented and the station coverage is computed based on the present available FCC (50, 50) curves and a computer program. A new variable, the maximum possible antenna gain to guarantee a minimum signal level over a certain area, is introduced. A set of curves relating the maximum possible antenna gain to distance, maximum radiated power, antenna height, and signal level is developed for the three TV bands."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Video Signal Transmission Subcommittee 2.1.4 of the IEEE Group on Broadcasting is actively engaged in preparation of standards dealing primarily with the transmission and monitoring of baseband video signals. Subjects now under discussion are 1) methods of measurement of linear waveform distortion including the use of sine-squared techniques; 2) definition and measurement of dynamic gain; and 3) measurement of impedance errors using the return loss principle. The present status of this activity is reviewed and similar work done by other organizations such as the CCIR and EIA is surveyed."
"The paper discusses the method used by the CBC to a) ascertain that the quality of long-line transmissions is maintained at the required high level, and b) assist in the control of short-term deviations of transmission performance. It details the statistical approach employed in evaluating performance from data collected by regular sampling of key parameter values. The subjects of confidence levels and of user and supplier risks when evaluating performance are also discussed."
"The isocon camera tube is a development of the image orthicon, but produces a positively modulated output signal. In the image orthicon, the output signal has negative modulation and the detection of weak signals is limited by the shot noise in the large return beam current. The isocon overcomes this limitation as the return beam current is small for small signals, and the signal-to-noise ratio is maintained to very low light levels. The scanning beam current can be set to discharge highlights without materially affecting the low light performance, thus giving very wide dynamic range."
"A detailed analytical study has been made of the various factors affecting the band-limited signal-to-noise ratio in wideband video preamplifiers, where the signal source is essentially a current source and where the basic limitation on high-frequency performance is that of the input time-constant. This study involves an evaluation of the factors involved in creating \"feasibility circuit models\" preliminary to design optimization for specific requirements. Using identical overall frequency response forms, four basic types of amplifiers which correct for the input capacitance limitation are compared."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A Fourier analysis of the signal generated by scanning the vertical wedges used in television and facsimile test patterns is presented. This reveals narrow concentrations of signal energy at certain points in the spectrum. When these concentrations of signal energy fall in regions of transmission distortion, such as the cutoff regions of transmission lines, the familiar ringing impairment results."
"Characteristics of the NTSC color television signal are analyzed with respect to problems of splicing and editing video magnetic tape recordings of these signals. Problems of reproduction of tape where a slice creates a sudden 180°reversal of color burst phase are discussed and methods of avoiding this problem are outlined."
"The FM sound signal of a broadcasting TV transmitter is usually affected by spurious AM caused by the resonators of the vision–sound combiner. A simple expression is derived which allows the quantitative evaluation of this unwanted effect. Since the frequency stability of the resonators is the only factor which falls within the control of the designer, some considerations are made regarding the mechanical design criteria to be followed in order to improve it."
"Radio station WOR in New York City recently moved its 50 kW AM transmitter and directional antenna system from Carteret, N. J. to Lyndhurst, N. J. This paper describes the facilities and design, and the problems encountered in moving to a swamp location in the midst of 12 other radio stations. While not all problems are applicable to every new directional antenna system, many of them are common. The paper details recommendations on construction of a transmitter plant and a directional antenna system, the solution of problems, and pitfalls to avoid."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Television distribution by cable is rapidly coming of age as a widely accepted public service. Equipment is now becoming available which will do much to bring about necessary improvements in system performance, life, reliability, and operating costs. This paper analyzes the requirements for a fully satisfactory and reliable CATV system and sets forth objective technical specifications which should be met by the equipment manufacturer and the system operator. References for requirements based on subjective evaluation are given."
"The specifications required to guarantee proper performance of a VHF television modulator or demodulator are relatively well-defined. Measurements associated with the specifications are somewhat complex and require techniques and equipment not normally available to Community Antenna Television (CATV) system engineers."
"This paper describes a technique of testing applicable to CATV systems. It permits a determination of the transmission characteristic over the entire TV and FM spectrum during normal operation and use. The requirements for this method of testing are: 1) no annoying interference with the TV pictures, 2) no interference with system operating levels, 3) no interference with system automatic gain control, 4) no breaking into system or cabling, 5) must be capable of use from a truck and have no requirement to synchronize with city power mains."
"This paper describes the solid-state head-end for CATV. It deals with the various requirements of the CATV head-end and how these requirements are met, utilizing the modular construction concept."
"The carriage, on cable television, of signals in the presence of a strong, ambient, co-channel field intensity generally results in interference between the desired signal delivered by the cable and a signal picked up by leakage either in the receiving set or the cable itself. An analysis of this phenomenon suggests various techniques for detecting and measuring the interference."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Techniques of large-scale integration are now being applied to \"adaptive\" type computing elements because the nature of the partitioning of the adaptive computing function yields building blocks that can be both economically realized and applicable to a wide variety of other uses. The adaptive element devices are actually members of a hardware line of digital filter building blocks consisting of four members: digital filter shift register chip; digital-pulse converter output chip; serial/parallel multiplier; adaptive-element shift register chip. This paper discusses the last two of these devices."
"A generalized root locus following technique is presented. Fundamentally, the concept involved is that of approximating a locus by a straight line in order to predict another point on the locus. The method is applicable to a large class of root loci problems and yields expressions for calculating the real and imaginary parts of the roots in terms of the parameter for which the locus is desired."
"A probabilistic analysis of a state space trajectory generation technique for process or object identification in the presence of noise is performed. It is shown that this technique permits good discrimination against noise for a predictable process and that a set of optimum data processing parameters exist which maximize the probability of detection."
"A gliding type re-entry of a space capsule into the Martian atmosphere for softlanding with the minimum heat generation is investigated. A nonlinear filter which can be installed on-board is developed to estimate the unknown atmospheric parameter values of Mars in real-time. A stochastic control problem with state variables estimation is investigated for the re-entry capsule which is subject to random movements of the Martian atmosphere due to wind and wind gusts."
"The term \"adaptation\" in the behavioral sciences refers to the ability of living tissue to adjust to the demands of environmental changes. This is accomplished in a variety of ways. For example, the sense organs become less sensitive when stimulated and more sensitive when stimulation is removed. Long-term effects of adaptation, for example to distracting noises, are observed in the absence of known physiological changes. The perceptual system is able to extract from the large quantity and quality of stimuli impinging upon it only those which are of interest and relevance. The prime mechanism of adaptation, however, is the ability of the human operator to adjust his responses to novel situations, i.e., learning It is the redundancy of the human operator which is his most valuable asset and prescribes the inclusion of the human in complex systems in spite of the concomitant demands for life support. The papers in the symposium are designed to illustrate several ways in which the human operator exhibits adaptation."
"From the physiological and anatomical point of view, the lateral visual field of the human operator is approximately 180�. Although a number of visual functions including visual acuity and the ability to detect light decrease in the peripheral regions, a normal observer generally makes discriminations out to 80� on either side of the midline and beyond. Such data as these are obtained primarily from standard experiments in which the subject, seated comfortably in an experimental room reports on the presence and nature of stimuli presented to his peripheral visual field. A different situation arises, however, When similar data are taken under non-standard laboratory conditions. If the subject is under physical or emotional stress, frightened, inexperienced, under the effects of drugs, etc., a decrement in the ability to detect peripheral stimuli is observed, This phenomenon has given rise to the concept of the functional visual field implying that although the anatomical and physiological mechanisms are present, stimuli presented to the periphery cannot be detected, or are detected at a lower level of efficiency, under conditions of stress. In connection with an experiment designed to determine the physiological effects of severe water loss as a result of heat stress, an opportunity was provided to also test the subject's ability to detect peripherally presented stimuli. Eight subjects worked on a standard treadmill according to a 20 minutes on-off duty cycle for six hours. The speed and inclination of the treadmill were adjusted so as to produce, on different days, either 5% or 2.5% weight loss. Half the subjects were male, half female, half lean and half obese. In addition, at the end of the 6 hour session, a maximum performance test was given to each subject. Data were obtained not only on the ability to detect peripheral thresholds, but also on central reaction time. The results indicate no effect whatsoever of any of the conditions of the experiment on any of the measurements taken. These data are in marked contrast to those of previous studies in which even the slightest changes in stimulus conditions produced loss of peripheral discrimination. The discrepancy between this and previous studies is attributed to the fact that the subjects had previous training in the use of the apparatus, that they were highly motivated, and that they were required to respond only for short prearranged duty cycles."
"Long distance driving epitomizes the ability of drivers to adapt to various levels of information input. Commercial drivers cover roads which vary over a wide range in the amount and frequency of stimuli presented. Practical considerations such as schedules, speed limits and limitations in equipment reduce the range of variation in actual speeds attained from that otherwise expected. Extremes in infomation load increase costs in terms of driver stresses, resulting in widespread use of drugs, occasional hallucinations or amnesias, and impatient or aggressive attitudes which increase the risk of accident involvement."
"Man's ability to handle two or more channels of information which overlap in time has been a subject of considerable recent interest. This paper reviews a series of experiments involving performance on two overlapping tasks. The primary task, in most instances, was the pursuit tracking of step-function inputs. Secondary tasks which were varied to determine those conditions which would interfere with tracking performance, typically involved verbal response to a second signal source. Among the more significant results is evidence that a principal source of interference is the response selection (as distinguished from the response execution) requirements of the second task. It appears that the limitation on two channel processing may be a limit in decision-making capabilities, and that the relevant decisions are those involved in selecting among alternative responses. The findings appear to hold for rather different tasks and are not limited to manual control (tracking) operations."
"The papers summarized in this discussion reflect some of the characteristics of the human as an information processor and as a user of this processed information in a subsequent decision-making type of situation. In the first of the papers presented here reporting research carried out at the decision-making laboratories at the Pennsylvania State University, it is shown how the human adjusts his rate of responding to particular ratios of reinforcement to particular stimuli not only as a function of the reinforcement ratio but also as a function of the context of other reinforcement ratios he is learning at the same time. The second paper reviews the adaptation of the human information processor in learning and decision-making to programmed changes in variability of reinforcement ratios. These ratios range from zero change in material programmed for learning to small and large changes in the variability of the reinforcement ratios. During these changes overall mean proportions of reinforcement are constant. Of particular importance is the stability of the decision-maker in seemingly disregarding the rather gross changes in the programmed variability of the stimuli he is required to learn and on which he must base subsequent decisions. The third study summarized extends results described earlier. Unlike the earlier study, however, materials in the form of meaningful words are used here as stimuli. Of special importance is the rather \"floating\" characteristic of formerly neutral, or nonresponse-eliciting, stimuli as a function of the training schedule of un-related words."
"A class of upper bounds on the probability of error for the general multihypotheses pattern recognition problem is obtained. In particular, an upper bound in the class is shown to be a linear functional of the pairwise Bhattacharya coefficients. Evaluation of the bounds requires knowledge of a-priori probabilities and of the hypothesis-conditional probability density functions. A further bound is obtained that is independent of apriori probabilities. For the case of unknown apriori probabilities and conditional probability densities, an estimate of the latter upper bound is derived using a sequence of classified samples and Kernel functions to estimate the unknown densities."
"This paper derives an expression for the misadjustment, or extra probability of error, which results when adaptive design algorithms are used to design linear pattern classifiers from a finite number of patterns. The expressions have been evaluated for three algorithms--the fixed-increment error-correction algorithm, the relaxation error-correction algorithm, and the least-mean-square (LMS} algorithm--when used with patterns from Gaussian distributions with equal covariance matrices."
"Pattern recognizers are often composed of two parts, the feature extractor and the classifier. This paper is a description of a pattern recognizer whereby the classifier learns first, and is then fixed, followed by learning by a preprocessor, which must learn how to predistort the input to the fixed classifier for proper recognition of the learning set. Learning the distortion is an iterative process whereby each vector of the training set must be examined for each iteration. Each iteration fixes the parameters for several fundamental distortions, and the use of a subset of all the distortions over all iterations constitutes a net distortion."
"A sub-optimum method of extracting features from continuous data belonging to two pattern classes is presented. The set of features selected minimize bounds on the probability of error obtained from the Bhattacharyya distance and the Hajek divergence. The random processes associated with the two pattern classes are assumed to be Gaussian with different means and covariance functions. The results represent an extension of the existing results for classes with the same means and different covariance functions."
"A sequential decision model is discussed to design adaptive receptor for selecting feature subsets in recognition systems. Selection strategies are proposed to choose subsets of features based on the classification results fed back from the classifier. These strategies are adaptive in the sense that the selection is constantly guided by the feedback results in such a way as to maximize the long-run proportion of correct recognition. A character recognition experiment was carried out on a computer-simulated basis to demonstrate the feasibility of this model."
"It is known that R linearly separable classes of multi-dimensional pattern vectors can always be represented in a feature space of at most R dimensions. An approach is developed which can frequently be used to find a non-orthogonal transformation to project the patterns into a feature space of considerably lower dimensionality. Examples involving classification of handwritten and printed digits are used to illustrate the technique."
"Large scale systems with some social relevance present major challenges to the modern system engineer. The coordination of future transportation systems both on a national and an urban scale is among the more important of these. A number of citizens feel that reorganizing urban life in the United States is a fitting and pressing national goal for the next several decades and reorganizing the urban transportation segment is an essential feature of urban planning. A systems study of the city will be discussed and a number of activities basic to a city system model will be proposed. Transportation will be one of these elements."
"Contributions by the engineering profession to transportation system analysis have primarily been from civil engineers. It would appear that the electrical-electronic branch of the profession should have much to offer, particularly in regard to the application of system theory, network analysis and automatic control techniques. Examples are given of analogs between electrical networks and transportation system models as an indication of how the skills of IEEE system-oriented people may be applied to transportation analysis tasks involving other branches of engineering and the quantitative social sciences. The current art of use by civil engineers of network models in transportation analysis is reviewed briefly. Certain deficiencies are noted which limit the usefulness and validity of these models."
"In earlier work, the authors have treated the questions of existence and construction of linear time invariant dynamical inverses for linear time invariant dynamical systems. For systems having inverses, these procedures provide an inverse system whose output is a uniformly delayed or uniformly integrated version of the original system input. Recognizing that some applications may require each component of the original system input to be recovered with individually minimum delay or integration, the authors present here alternative procedures to be used in such cases."
"Transfer function matrices describing dynamical systems depend in a complex way upon large numbers of physical parameters, which often are not known precisely. A fundamental problem in sensitivity theory is to write such matrices as the sum of a nominal matrix and an error matrix, the latter expressing the effects of parameter variations. This error matrix is the absolute sensitivity matrix. In earlier work, the authors have given a general expression for the absolute sensitivity matrix associated with a wide class of network and systems problems. An approximation to the absolute sensitivity matrix was also brought forth and shown to be related to the well known Cruz-Perkins sensitivity matrix. The relation of the absolute sensitivity matrix to the Cruz-Perkins matrix was weakened, in the early work, by the approximation which had been made in derivation. The present paper establishes the exact conditions under which the absolute sensitivity matrix is directly related to the Cruz-Perkins matrix."
"This paper is concerned with the dynamic response of a general class of linear systems the parameters of which undergo step perturbations. The maximum size of these perturbations are limited by the stability bounds of the perturbed system. Using the assumptions that : (a) the system's input vector is a stationary process, random or deterministic; and (b) the step perturbations are random and statistically independent of the system input vector, a technique is developed for the exact analysis of the dynamic response of the system. It is shown that the state and output covariance matrices of the perturbed system can be represented by first-order matrix differential equations. It is indicated that a quasi-linear mathematical model of the perturbation process may be obtained for small perturbations. This model describes the dynamics of the parameter-perturbation-transmission path from the perturbations in the parameters to the dynamic response in the system covariance matrix. The theory is developed for continuous linear systems, but may be analogously extended to discrete cases."
"This paper is concerned with making on-line adjustments in the adjustable parameters of a feedback control system in order to compensate for a deterioration of performance brought about by unknown variations in other system parameters. The algorithms to be discussed here are extensions and modifications of an algorithm reported in [1] and [2]. The basic control system containing known, adjustable and unknown parameters is assumed to be represented by the vector equations x = A(γ, ω)x + B(γ, ω)r (1) y = Cx The n-vector x(t) is the state of the over-all basic (feedback) control system, r(t) is a p-vector of arbitrary command and disturbance inputs, and y(t) is a q-vector of output variables. The coefficient matrices A and B in (1) are given functions of a vector γ = (γ1, .. γa) of adjustable controller parameters (adjustable amplifier gains, filter time constants and the like) and a vector ω = (ω1, .. ωb) of plant parameters. The value of ω is assumed to be unknown and may be slowly varying with time."
"Stochastic Automata have been proposed as a suitable approach for Adaptive parameter optimization problems with multimodal performance criteria. A recently developed automaton structure [1] with the desired behavioral properties is presented and then contrasted with the most straightforward global strategy, that of Sample Mean estimation. This comparison, which is based on both the cost of sampling and also on the total number of samples, establishes a general point of view within which to assess the advantages of the automaton learning structure approach over the pure sampling approach which in effect, is a non-sequential procedure with no inherent learning capability."
"When incorrect prior statistics are used to implement sequential filtering algorithms, suboptimum performance and possibly filter divergence results. Thus it is desirable to estimate prior statistics from actual operating records and use these estimates in implementation of the optimum estimation algorithms. This paper presents a survey of currently existing algorithms for the sequential adaptive estimation of prior statistics."
"A Bayesian approach to optimal adaptive estimation with continuous data is presented. Both structure and parameter adaptation are considered and specific recursive adaptation algorithms are derived for gaussian process models and linear dynamics. Specifically, for the class of adaptive estimation problems with linear dynamic models and gaussian excitations, a form of the \"partition\" theorem will be given that is applicable both for structure and parameter adaptation. The \"partition\" or \"decomposition\" theorem effects the partition of the essentially nonlinear estimation problem into two parts, a linear non-adaptive part consisting of ordinary Kalman estimators and a nonlinear part that incorporates the adaptive or learning nature of the adaptive estimator. In addition, a simple performance measure is introduced for the on-line performance evaluation of the adaptive estimator. The on-line performance measure utilizes quantities available from the adaptive estimator and hence a minimum of additional computational effort is required for evaluation."
"A stochastic approximation algorithm is developed for estimating a mixture of normal density functions with unknown means and unknown variances. The algorithm minimizes an information criterion which has interesting properties for density approximations. The question of the completeness of normal density functions for the approximation of the class of continuous probability density functions is analyzed."
"This paper establishes conditions under which a problem of simultaneous identification and control may be treated by solving two separate problems; one an estimation problem on the set of unknown parameters of the plant as well as its external disturbances, and the other a control problem. This property is referred to as a separation and, when it is applicable, solutions can be readily obtained. An example is presented to illustrate how the property may be applied to specific problems."
"A new algorithm for identification from input-output measurements of a canonical form for discrete-time linear systems with disturbances having rational spectral densities is obtained by a formal application of the recursive least squares formula. Although in this case the assumptions of the least squares method are violated, the algorithm is shown to converge in mean square using a stochastic approximation proof. The proposed algorithm is computationally more expensive than the corresponding stochastic approximation formula [1], but converges much faster and there are no problems with choice of the gain constant. The complexity of the algorithm still compares favourably with other methods [2], [3], owing to its on-line structure."
"Using a new form of representation, a set of equations has been derived for the maximum likelihood identification of linear dynamic systems. These equations are shown to be directly related to the filtering and smoothing equations for linear dynamic systems. Numerical results are obtained for a fourth order system using Davidon's Conjugate Gradient Method which also gives the variances of the estimates."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Methods are presented for simulating multimachine power-system dynamical response on the basis of Park's equations including the effects of an arbitrary number of circuits on the rotors of the synchronous machines. These methods allow a direct calculation treatment of effects that are neglected or treated only approximately in many power-system simulation programs, namely, amortisseur damping torques and subtransient saliency."
"The results of an inquiry into the security standards and practices adopted in the operation of power systems in 16 European countries are presented. A complementary paper gives similar results for standards and practices in planning [1]."
"The results of an inquiry into the security standards and practices adopted in the planning of power systems in 16 European countries are presented. A complementary paper gives similar results for standards and practices in operation [1]."
"A new method has been devised to solve the well- known load-flow problem. It is based on the fact that the equations for real and reactive power at a bus have the same form as those for ordinary circles under the assumption that the voltages are fixed for all other buses. The real and reactive power losses are similarly expressed as circles. This enables one to find the least square solution to the common chords or radical axes to use as the new voltage solution. A sort routine and an extrapolation method is included to speed convergence."
"Inserting and removing a series capacitor in a transmission line can remove the oscillatory transients due to a fault. The capacitor should be inserted in the remaining transmission lines when the fault is detected and removed by short circuiting when the time rate of change of power flow through the capacitor is zero or the rate of change of phase angle between line terminations is zero. The capacitor should be reinserted when the kinetic energy due to speed deviations equals the amount of kinetic energy that can be removed during the remaining swing to the target state independent of whether or not the line is restored to service."
"Previous work on power-line-produced telephone interference has dealt with the case of a single equivalent power conductor. This paper presents the theory applicable to a multiconductor power line excited by general, linear networks. A self-contained digital-computer program employing these techniques has been written. It rigorously handles the important case of actual communication line-power line crossings. A comparison of the computer results with experimental measurements is provided."
"Ferroresonance is defined in a way corresponding to the more general expression \"jump resonance.\" An analytical method called the incremental describing-function method is applied to the problem of ferroresonance in power systems for a certain class of problems. In general, the method is applicable when the conditions can be shown to be essentially single phase."
"A study of nonsustained breakdowns has been made during alternating voltage tests on the electric strength of various commercial insulants in transformer oil and compressed sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen. Such breakdowns do not cause sustained arcing and current flow. It is demonstrated for normal test circuits, that the voltage required for nonsustained breakdown may be significantly below that which will cause a sustained discharge. Experimental results of the effect of test circuit parameters and relay settings on the breakdown voltages recorded are given. The implications of these results on the hitherto accepted practice of ignoring nonsustained breakdowns in many insulation testing standards are discussed, and these might well be taken into consideration when the testing standards are reviewed for possible revision."
"A stability study of a rectifier-inverter induction motor drive system is performed by neglecting the harmonic content of the stator voltages and applying Nyquist stability criterion to the small- displacement equations obtained by linearization about an operating point. This investigation reveals that system instability can occur over a wide speed range if the system parameters are improperly selected. It appears that the method of analysis presented in this paper is sufficient to predict stability of practical rectifier-inverter induction motor drive systems. Also, with slight modifications, this method of analysis can be applied to rectifier-inverter systems which supply reluctance-synchronous machines or synchronous machines."
"The line-to-ground short-circuit case of a synchronous machine is solved. By mathematical analysis, new and complete expressions for short-circuit currents, torque, and open phase voltage are derived for ready uses."
"A new method for exciting alternators is presented. Each rotor pole of the alternator consists of two adjacent half-poles on two axes at 90 electrical degrees from each other. The resultant magnetic field can be made to revolve with respect to the rotor. This is achieved by means of a set of movable brushes around the commutator of the exciter. Investigations on the frequency and transient stability of the alternator with the new excitation system are carried out. The results show that by using the new excitation system, it is possible to improve the transient stability of an alternator connected to an infinite busbar and to stabilize the frequency of an alternator when the latter acts as the sole power source."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Two different network configurations for 420 kV are examined on TNA simulating different possible types of lightning arresters to determine the discharge currents and energies through the arrester and their distribution as a function of the closing sequence of the breaker and of the switching impulse sparkover voltage of the arrester. The effect of the different possible characteristics of the magnetic active gap on the magnitude of the currents and on the residual voltage are examined."
"This is a report on a study of positive, negative and ac corona in the wire-plane configuration for wire diameters ranging from 0.175-4.6 mm, and for gap distances of up to 20 cm. The results show that gap length like wire diameter plays an important role in the form of corona discharge. It was also found necessary to calculate certain basic variables such as the field around the wire surface and along the gap axis, the radius and the charge content of the avalanche, etc. This served the double purpose of verifying the extent to which the existing theories on corona apply to the wire-plane gap and, at the same time, of providing numerical data on the wire-plane gap that were not available in the literature. Extensive use was made of digital computational methods in order to give as ample numerical data as possible."
"As in the case of unipolar corona, theoretical calculation of corona losses for bipolar dc transmission line configurations involves the analysis of the nonlinear ionized field in the interelectrode region. However, the complexity of the analysis is increased considerably because of the presence of ions of both polarities in the region."
"The authors present the highlights of most utility interest in ac power line radiations above the radio broadcast band. Exceeding some 15 MHz sparks and microsparks are the sources of interference; their generation and propagation, the frequencies involved, and the conflict of interests that result are described. The accent is on television where, although a majority of complaints are caused by others, the power utilities are called upon to locate almost all sources of interference. Investigation procedures and instrumentations used are discussed, and explanations of physical phenomena and corrective measures are provided."
"This paper deals with the problem of interpretation of the RI level generated by a short test line. It is shown that matching, on one or both ends of such a line, gives several advantages with respect to the classical solution of an open line in HF; the HF coupling and matching circuits are described."
"The quasi-peak readings of radio-noise meters have been generally accepted as an indication of the degree of nuisance to radio reception from ac and dc coronas. Simplified theoretical analyses were previously made to correlate the readings of radio- noise meters to some corona pulse characteristics."
"Modern control theory is being used more and more in regulator design of synchronous generator automatic regulating equipment. Making use of the well-established linearized equations of the synchronous machine and its control equipment, the characteristic equation of the system is developed from which the eigenvalues of the system are found. The sensitivities of these eigenvalues to the various parameters of the control system are calculated. This approach can provide a basis for optimal design of the system. A detailed sensitivity analysis is made of a particular system under various operating conditions, and results are tabulated, making it possible to obtain a clear idea about the effect of any parameter on the system performance and dynamic stability limit."
"The feasibility solving optimal load flow problems by means of nonlinear programming techniques has been previously demonstrated. Recently, a new method by Powell for constrained minimization has claimed a better performance than existing methods. An investigation was carried out to test Powell's method on optimal load flow problems and results obtained confirm expectations. Powell's method and its accompanying Fletcher-Powell method, which performs the actual minimizations, are presented. The power system optimal load flow problem is discussed, and its equations are presented in the form required by the nonlinear programming approach. Finally, a numerical example on the IEEE 30- bus standard test system is presented in which an economic dispatching is accomplished with the new method. Computation time is small enough to permit the application of the method for dispatching at practical intervals of time."
"An analysis of the performance of a converter possessing both common (primary) and anode (seondary) reactance is presented. Anode reactors are invariably used in HVDC converter stations and in industrial conversion equipment employing thyristors. It is shown that if the commutating reactance is split in such a manner, the behavior of the converter is more complex compared to the case in which all the commutating reactance is common. The various modes of operation and the boundary parameters between modes are derived, and overall regulation characteristics are shown. Controlled and uncontrolled rectification as well as inversion at constant extinction angle is discussed."
"This paper presents a centralized optimizing computational algorithm for the on-line control of voltage and reactive power. The body of the paper is divided into two parts."
"The South of Scotland Electricity Board with an installed capacity of 3850 MW of generating plant and a maximum demand of 3460 MW is about the same size as many North American undertakings, and information regarding design and operating practices peculiar to this Board may be of interest. The organization and system of this all-purpose Board, with a mixture of conventional, gas turbine, nuclear, and hydro plant is therefore briefly described. Information concerning availability is provided. Then an indication is given of the Board's plans for future extensions and choice of fuels, having regard to the relatively high proportion of nuclear plant already supplying the system. In 1967-1968 22 percent of units sold came from this source. An account is given of the standards of security of supply which are a guide for the design of the transmission and distribution systems and also the basis of interconnection with neighboring systems. Some of the switching arrangements are described, including the use of switching isolators. Finally the results of operating experience in the form of fault statistics and costs are dealt with."
"An outline of the development of electricity generation in the Republic of Ireland from the date of the establishment of the Electricity Supply Board in 1927 is given. Three distinct phases are examined: the hydro phase from 1928 to 1954, the peat phase from 1950 to 1965, and the current fuel oil phase commencing in 1964. The planned and probable developments during the next decade are discussed along with the criteria and methods used for forward planning."
"A method of applying shunt capacitors for voltage control and peak loss reduction is discussed. The concept is extended to the optimization of total monetary savings due to both peak loss and energy loss reductions. A computer program is developed to aid engineers in the application of such a method."
"-The standard area interchange control method for load flow inhibits the convergence of whatever numerical technique is being used. A simple revision of the system of equations being solved allows Newton's method to calculate load flows with area control but with the same convergence rate as studies in which area control is not included."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"A study on unbalanced short circuits of three-phase machines with additional field circuits is discussed, and a detailed solution for the case of a double-line-to-ground short circuit of a salient-pole synchrenous machine is offered. By mathematical analysis, new and complete transient solutions for short-circuit currents, torque, and open-phase voltage are derived for ready uses."
"A phasor diagram for excited-field synchronous machines is recommended for adoption by USASI and IEC. The diagram and the choice of direct and quadrature axes are defined so that the laws of induced voltages are expressed in \"natural\" form. The recommended diagram overcomes certain apparent inconsistencies in the phasor diagram in USASI Standard C42.10-1957."
"Damper-bar currents of a synchronous machine induced during transient asynchronous operation are studied in this paper. Experimental and mathematical methods are used in analyzing an actual synchronous machine. Results of calculations and measurements are presented and compared. All analyses are carried out both for the synchronous machine with a squirrel cage and with a grill (open end rings)."
"The complete equivalent circuits of a synchronous machine with a grill (open end rings) are analyzed. Because the direct-axis equivalent circuits for both the squirrel-cage and the grill machines are the same and are well known, the paper develops only the quadrature-axis equivalent circuit for a machine with a grill."
"A digital model for a three-phase induction machine is developed, which is particularly adapted for studying its dynamic performance when fed from an inverter. Conventionally, the induction motor is analyzed in terms of its d-q variables, while the operation of the inverter generally needs continuous monitoring of the state of its phase quantities. Thus in a study of the composite inverter-induction-machine system, one is faced with the problem of matching the two sets of variables. The proposed model overcomes this problem by describing the machine behavior directly in terms of the stator phase variables, at the same time retaining a computational simplicity comparable to that of the d-q equations. Furthermore, it is shown that the machine equations, expressed in terms of the stator terminal variables, can conveniently handle the various terminal conditions, like open phases, that may arise when the machine is fed from an inverter. Detailed equations in a form suitable for digital solution are also presented for possible terminal constraints of this nature, with or without the machine neutral connected to supply."
"The method of multiple reference frames and the equations of transformation of the inverter are employed to establish a method of calculating the inverter current in a rectifier - inverter drive system. Since the method of multiple reference frames does not use phasors or complex impedances, the calculation of the inverter current is simple and direct. Also presented is a method of approximating the 6th harmonic variation in the capacitor voltage of the filter, connected between the rectifier and the inverter. This method permits a simplified means of rapidly obtaining a first- order approximation of the variation in the capacitor voltage. The analysis establishes a straightforward method of calculating variables in a rectifier - inverter drive system, which are difficult to determine by conventional methods of analysis."
"An experimental study of a capacitively excited synchronous machine having armature windings on both rotor and stator is discussed. Voltage regulation, efficiency, and power output data show the machine to be a compact, high-energy density, low-impedance source of electric energy. Effects of unbalanced resistive load and magnetic saturation are illustrated. Voltage regulation of 10 percent and electromagnetic efficiency of 84 percent have been realized, with the machine operating in the manner of a self-excited dc shunt generator without a voltage regulator."
"An analog method is described in which a network, consisting of semiconductor diodes, capacitors, and resistors, is used to solve the partial differential equations. The magnetization curves of electrical sheet steels and solid iron are simulated to a high degree of accuracy by specially selected silicon zener diodes. With constant permeability any two-dimensional region, consisting of solid or laminated iron, copper, brass, air, etc., may be considered. With variable permeability, the one-dimensional case has been treated for three different boundary conditions. The equations necessary for the determination of the quantities flux, power, force, etc. are derived and transient phenomena are also considered. As a numerical example, the distribution of current and flux density in time and space in the interior of a solid iron plate is determined for different boundary conditions, and the eddy current losses are calculated. Due to the variable permeability, a discretization error appears in the form of a peculiar high-frequency ripple with sharp peaks. This represents a considerable obstacle if relaxation methods are attempted."
"A useful treatment of as broad a class of such reliability problems of switching stations and substations as can be treated by the theory of Markov processes is covered. The mechanics of failure and repair effects are discussed by means of mathematical models, and basic members with memory, fluctuating failure, and repair rates are evaluated. The system is assumed to operate under normal and stormy-weather conditions. The nonrandomness of special events are involved. In addition, a Monte Carlo method of computer simulation is presented for determining the reliability of stations."
"This paper presents a generalization of the normalization (per-unit) technique. The introduction of a region graph with its associated tree and cotree, a form of network equations designated as a primary system and some properties of matrix triple products, makes it possible to develop this normalization theory in a broad and mathematically rigorous form. Particular attention is paid to nominal normalization and the restrictions it imposes on the inter- relations of the normalization constants. A particularly significant result of this normalization theory is that it produces a normalized network identical with its prototype except for altered values of network parameters. The development organizes the normalization portion of the mathematical model for vast power networks into an effective structure, one which is particularly suitable for further theoretical development, digital computer calculations, and tutorial purposes."
"Methods of determining longitudinal tensions to be supported by flexible transmission structures, such as tubular steel poles, A frames, H frames, and similar two-dimensional structures, as a result of phase severance, or similar imbalance in one span of a series, are outlined. Tension reduction caused by insulator displacement plus the consequent structure deflection is determined."
"The correlation which exists between the dynamic strains occurring in span and those occurring at the rigidly clamped extremities on vibrating taut circular beams is shown. The way wire slippage, occurring on real loaded stranded cables, will reduce the dynamic strains and contribute to the cable's internal damping is also illustrated."
"The results of a comprehensive laboratory test program on the creep characteristics of EC-H19, 5005-H19, and 6201- T81 aluminum alloy conductor wires are presented. Creep curves for those alloys are illustrated over a stress range of 15 to 25 percent minimum average strengths and a temperature range of 25 to 100°C. The importance of creep history as a function of total creep at any time and temperature is presented. A correlation is made between wire creep and the creep of conductors made from the wire. A projection is made that creep data presented in this paper will be used to predict total creep of conductors over their service life when reasonable estimates of operating conditions are made."
"The paper deals with the improvement in the performance of an induction machine with a solid iron rotor slitted axially. The improvement is observed mainly in the full-load slip, the power factor, and the starting torque. In this paper, a one- dimensional model of a slitted rotor is presented based on the original and novel concept that the tooth and slit profile is a flux line. Based on this, the field distribution inside the iron is obtained from 1) a linear theory and 2) a limiting nonlinear theory. The results of the analyses based on these theories are found in better agreement than those based on the composite permeability theory."
"A stability study of an induction machine is performed by applying the root-locus criterion to the equations which describe the behavior of the machine during small displacements about a steady-state operating point. This investigation reveals that a symmetrical induction machine may become unstable at low speeds (low frequencies) even though balanced, constant amplitude, sinusoidal voltages are applied to the stator terminals. Regions of machine instability are established from the results of a digital computer study. The results of an analog computer study are included to illustrate the modes of operation which occur within these regions. Regions of instability for changes of system parameters are presented and discussed. Also, it is shown that the root- locus criterion can be utilized to identify regions of lightly damped operation."
"A design procedure for the three-phase heteropolar type of inductor alternator has been worked out. Expressions for open-circuit-voltage direct- and quadrature-axis reactances of arnature reaction, short-circuit characteristic, and the power output of this type of alternator have also been developed. The stator leakage reactance, which is an important parameter in the design and operation of such alternators has been reviewed. The design procedure has been applied to a typical alternator of this type and test results confirm the procedure."
"The paper develops expressions for various inductance coefficients of three-phase inductor alternators on the basis of a harmonic permeance distribution in the air gap. These expressions involve harmonics in the MMF distribution of the armature windings and also harmonics in the permeance distribution due to the non- uniform air gap. The analysis shows that, when the armature carries current, both odd and even harmonic voltages are induced in it. However, a certain group of harmonics can be eliminated by suitably choosing the number of rotor teeth and stator teeth and number of coils per phase. It is also shown in the analysis that inductor alternators having an odd number of rotor teeth are superior to those with an even number of rotor teeth. Performance equations of both types of alternators are also established."
"In this paper, the various inductance coefficients of three-phase inductor alternators have been theoretically calculated and compared with the results obtained from a test performed on the alternator. The results obtained from the test show a general agreement with the theory derived in [1]. The inductor alternators with an odd number of rotor teeth are found to be similar to ordinary synchronous alternators in respect to their inductance coefficients, but the inductor alternators with an even number of rotor teeth are quite dissimilar as shown in the simplified expressions developed here. The equations developed are also useful in analyzing these alternators under transient conditions."
"The startup activities of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, Unit, 1 are covered. The tests during startup reveal component design deficiencies, system design deficiencies, and discrepancies in plant operating instructions. Resolution of these deficiencies are important to the proper operation of this plant and the design of future plants."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The response of stranded cables to exciting forces produced by wind is studied here, and details of an analytical and experimental study of cable self-damping are presented."
"The analytical study of the power separator-filter type of discharge detector, when used to measure corona on long lengths of cable and the use of this type detector in cable factories over a period of years, together with a suggested procedure to determine the partial discharge-voltage stress (corona factor) characteristic has been presented. The detector itself, when used in a cable factory, is only part of a circuit arrangement which necessitates the interconnecting of the high-voltage supply, the detector, and the reel of the cable under test in environments sometimes with large amounts of electrical noise. The sources of electrical noise and their relationships to the parameters of the detector itself are discussed, noise suppression procedures which optimize the circuit arrangements are outlined, and sensitivities in the range of several picocoulombs are obtained in cable factory environment using normal test personnel."
"Transient electrostatic induction by EHV lines on objects such as large vehicles is studied. Attention is drawn to the need of further investigation with regard to hazards to persons touching the object and being submitted to current pulses of very short duration. An analytical expression for the electrostatically induced voltage wave is derived. The calculated numerical values are checked experimentally on the air model and the results show good agreement."
"This paper provides additional theoretical information on half-wave-length power transmission. The analysis is rendered more general by consideration of a natural half-wave line instead of a short line tuned to half-wave. The effects of line loading and its power factor on the voltage and current profiles of the line and ganerator excitation have been included. Some of the operating problems such as charging of the line and synchronization of the half-wave system are also discussed. The inevitability of power-frequency overvoltages during faults is established. Stability studies have indicated that the use of switching stations is not beneficial. Typical swing curves are also presented."
"The basic concepts of tuned half-wave lines were covered by Hubert and Gent [1]. In this paper the problem of overvoltages during faults and the stability of the system incorporating such tuned lines are discussed. The type of tuning bank and the line arrangements that will be satisfactory from the point of view of stability are suggested. The behavior of a line tuned by distributed capacitor is analyzed, and its performance is compared with the other type of tuned line."
"A knowledge of the electric field is required to estimate the onset voltages of corona breakdown for extra-high voltage lines with bundle conductors. A method is described for computing the potential and electric field in the gap between unipolar twin- bundle conductors and ground based on a charge simulation technique and the principle of images. In this method the charge on the conductors is represented by several lumped charges. Boundary conditions on the conductor's surface allow formulation of simultaneous equations, whose digital solution yields the assumed lumped charges, from which the potential and electric field are directly computed. The digital computer program provided values of the potential and electric field, magnitude, and direction, anywhere in the gap with an accuracy of 0.1 percent. The results of a sample calculation for an actual 345-kV conductor are given for varying parameters."
"This study aims to make clear the air-gap flashover probabilities for positive long-front impulse voltages, especially in the extremely small probability domain, by using the flashover characteristics of the parallel multigap, which consists of 20 3- meter rod-rod gap pairs. The flashover probability relation between single gap and multigap will be shown by a simple equation. On the basis of this relation, air-gap flashover probability with respect to applied voltage will be shown to follow normal distribution down to V50 percent - 3.95σin the extremely small flashover domain. The calibration of the influence of weather conditions on the 50- percent flashover voltage and the standard deviation was obtained as a result of a series of experiments extending through four seasons. A method of calculating flashover probability on transmission lines for switching surges is shown as an example of the application of multigap flashover characteristics."
"Maximum likelihood methods are applied to the analysis of flashover probability data. A two-parameter distribution is assumed, with emphasis on the normal distribution. Variances and approximate confidence limits are determined."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advanicemenet of the science anid practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The induction motor control system of the battery- powered Electrovair II, where a thyristor (controlled rectifier) modulating inverter supplies the three-phase variable frequency and modulates the voltage level as required by the induction motor is described. Electrovair I, which preceded Electrovair II, used separate power circuits to perform the functions of voltage-level control and frequency generation."
"The recent advances in the power handling capacity of semiconductor devices make it possible to replace dc and ac commutator machines for variable-speed applications by high-speed, lightweight, squirrel-cage induction motors. This paper describes a controlled slip-frequency system which eliminates the low-starting torque, low-power factor, and the low efficiency at lower speeds, normally associated with induction motors. The development program at the General Motors Research Laboratories that resulted in fabrication of the experimental electric vehicles, GM Electrovair and Electrovan (exhibited in October 1966), is described chronologically."
"The importance of reproducing the conditions of maximum energy released within the interrupting arc is fundamental in proving the short-circuit breaking capacity of fuses in the full range of operating currents. This paper illustrates the conditions for maximum energy release in low-voltage current-limiting fuses for industrial applications in the range of overcurrents from those implying prearcing times of the order of one half-cycle or less and up to the maximum breaking capacity assigned by the manufacturer. This paper also refers to some experimental results."
"For the region pd<(pd)min, breakdown characteristics U2 = f(pd) are presented for both the noble and the more important molecular gases He, Ne, A, Kr, Xe, N2, H2, NH3, air, CO2, O2 (and Hg), particularly giving the probability of breakdown on which they are based, so that they can be used for dimensioning the relevant equipment. The design of vessel and electrode geometry which were introduced to determine these characteristics, and which have been tested up to a peak voltage of several hundred kilovolts, made it possible to study and describe the shape of the breakdown and flashover voltages relative to one another at pressures down to high vacuum (region of vacuum breakdown). They also provide an overall picture of the constructional facilities existing within the four following regions of ultimate stress, in which the breakdown voltage is determined by the ultimate electrical stressing of 1) the electrode surface (vacuum breakdown), 2) the insulator inside wall (internal flashover), 3) the insulator outside wall (external flashover), and 4) the gas path (Paschen breakdown). To express the probability of breakdown between 100 percent certainty (W = 1) and complete freedom from breakdown (W = 0), Poisson's formula may be used for the various breakdown mechanisms, i. e., for values of pd close to the respective kink and in the kinked part of the lefthand leg of the Paschen curve (regions 1-4 in Fig. 2), the value μbeing proportional to the peak value of the applied voltage Û."
"The post-zero current that flows in power circuit breakers during the voltage recovery period is calculated from the restored voltage transient, knowing the equivalent circuit for the test circuit. A differential equation for the post-zero current is derived, and numerical methods for solving it by means of an electronic computer are discussed. Data from a typical circuit breaker test are used to illustrate the different numerical methods."
"An analysis of the positive column of a high-current metal-vapor arc in a vacuum atmosphere is presented. Data for the analysis was obtained from the voltage-current characteristics of 60-Hz vacuum arcs with copper electrodes. Results of the analysis show that, for arcs carrying currents greater than 8000 amperes rms, the dominant mechanisms for controlling the size and transport properties of the arc column are magnetic pinch force and radiation energy losses. For arcs with currents ranging between 8000 and 26 000 amperes rms, the temperature, metal-vapor density, and electrical conductivity range from 9000 to 20 000°K, from 7.4 X 1016 to 1.1 X 1018 cm-3, and from 3.3 X 103 to 1.3 X 104 mho/m, respectively. Also, the time dependent on these quantities during an ac arc is presented."
"A method is described for simulating rainfall during tests of high-voltage equipment. The system as described delivers controllable rain rates ranging from 0.2 to 2.0 in/h with water drops 4.5 mm in diameter over an outdoor area of 3 by 200 feet. A new method for simulating rain had to be developed for an investigation of the corona performance of conductors for high-voltage transmission lines, because conventional rain sprays cannot provide the intensities and drop sizes that occur in natural rain. The effect of wind on the uniformity of rain rate during outdoor testing is analyzed. The information presented should be useful in adapting this system for tests on other equipment."
"The authors detail the outdoor switching-surge and impulse tests performed at Shiobara Laboratory to determine the insulation requirements of a 500-kV transmission system for the Tokyo Electric Power Company. Many kinds of insulator strings on single- and double-circuit configurations were thoroughly tested with the proximity effect at the tower window. The test for unbalanced insulation was conducted with the application of dc bias to the two insulator strings. The tests established a practical method for 500-kV line insulation design."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation into the electrical conduction characteristics of high-volume irrigation sprinkler water streams which may come in contact with high-voltage transmission lines. The measure of electric current conducted through the water stream is established as a function of distance from nozzle-to-conductor for two types of sprinkler systems. conductor-to-tower and conductor-to-conductor flashover data for various practical airgaps as a function of nozzle stream size and nozzle- to-conductor distance are presented."
"An EHV pipeline cable with compressed SF gas insulation was produced experimentally. Some dielectric tests were made with regard to 50-Hz impulse and switching surge voltages in 1965. Successively the second and third cables of three-phase type, about 45 feet in length, have been manufactured."
"Test evaluation of 69-kV cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) cable and joints for use with such cable is described. Joints suitable for connecting together either lengths of 69-kV cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) cable or XLPE cable to solid-type paper insulated 69-kV cable are studied. It is shown that the characteristics of the tape selected greatly influence the performance of the joint. The thermal resistivity and the thermal expansion of cross-linked polyethylene are also examined."
"This paper develops in a general fashion a logical procedure that analyzes circuit-breaker and protective-relaying operations in a power system. The purpose of the analysis, referred to as Automatic System Trouble Analysis (ASTA), is to derive an up-to- date picture of the power-system network and to obtain a realistic diagnosis of a case of system trouble. The ASTA procedure is characterized by a flexibility in its approach to accommodate design or operating changes with minimum logic modification. The logic statements are simple, requiring a minimum of relaying information inputs. Although the ASTA procedure is intended for future implementation by a process computer at a system control center, it may be programmed for a time-sharing computer for earlier use by the system dispatcher. In fact, the ASTA logic may be applied without the aid of a computer."
"Conductors for high electric currents have had a very interesting evolution extending through many years. As conditions changed, the application engineer developed types which most economically met the requirements of the period. This paper recounts in part the activities of the authors in this field since 1925. It details some of the most important developments as they took place at the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, and brings out the economic considerations which justified the various applications of forced cooling."
"The theory, construction, and characteristics of a filament-type current density probe are described. Its application to the direct measurement of the magnitude and phase of current density in solid and liquid two-and three-dimensional geometries is presented. The use of scaled liquid models in the solution of a variety of important proximity and skin effect problems is discussed. Brief mention is made of an alternate transducer, called a toroidal-type probe, for use in liquid conductors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"A method of determining the standard deviation and critical flashover (CFO) of flashover probability data which utilizes simple graphical techniques to obtain estimates of the parameters is developed. Suggestions are made regarding testing procedures to optimize information gained with a given number of voltage applications."
"A study was performed to determine ratings for bare overhead conductors during overloads of short duration. The method developed for calculating these ratings is presented, together with sample values for several sizes of ACSR. An evaluation of the sensitivity of these ratings to various parameters is included."
"The reinforcement of power-system interconnections intensifies the need for stability studies. The growing complexity of the networks tremendously increases the difficulties of performing these investigations. Present computers are not capable of representing a major system pool in detail and producing a study in reasonable time and at reasonable cost. One possible solution is to reduce the size of the system by the use of equivalents to represent portions of the network beyond the area of immediate interest. Stability equivalents are not perfect, but their use offers the possibility of reducing the problem to manageable proportions."
"The severe and varied environment of residential sub- surface transformers (RST) requires different materials and means of corrosion protection from the pole-top transformer. The galvanic characteristics of mild steel and stainless steels are presented along with corrosion test data on mild steel and ferritic stainless steels in RST environments. Also, field test data on corrosion and cathodic protection of transformers in typical RST installations are given."
"This paper is a presentation for trial use of a proposed test code for the short-circuit testing of distribution transformers rated 167 kVA and below. It covers factors such as transformer connections, calibration tests, test procedure, duration of tests, and proof of satisfactory test performance. The test code was prepared by the Working Group on Methods of Making Temperature Rise Tests of the Insulation Life Subcommittee of the IEEE Transformer Committee for possible eventual inclusion into the USASI Standards C57.12.90."
"For the past few years, the authors have studied the short-circuit strength of large transformer windings. In the course of the study, they have developed a new short-circuit testing method and have proved the method to be an effective means of finding the short-circuit strength of transformer windings. The new testing method and test results will be described in the following, together with a few observations."
"The modal theory of current flow, previously successful in predicting skin-effect behavior of single isolated conductors, is generalized to apply to any number of parallel conductors arbitrarily arranged in space and excited electrically by arbitrary currents. The distribution of current density within each conductor is found in terms of a summation of the modal functions, and the terminal parameters of the system of conductors are given as an impedance matrix relating the total conductor currents to the voltage drops in the various conductors. Sequence impedances, losses, and other electrical properties are then calculable from the basic impedance matrix."
"This paper is the second section of a two-part paper. The first carried full switching surge test information on post-type insulators through 2050 BIL, together with other pertinent information [1]. This paper carries similar information through 3300 BIL."
"The latest of a series of classified lists of power system relay references, begun in 1927, is presented."
"The detection and location of discharges in rotating- machine high-voltage windings is useful in directing attention to abnormalities in the insulation structure which can lead to premature failure of the winding. In order to achieve a practically useful test it is necessary to distinguish between conditions involving many small size voids which are not severely limiting and relatively few large voids."
"A ten-year industry-wide investigation into all phases of the 1956 AIEE no. 510 Test Procedure for Random Wound Motorettes is now complete and is reported here. The early publication of a revised motorette test procedure to be known as \"IEEE no. 117\" is now made possible. Based on the findings of the present study, it is now made manifestly clear that industry tests of this nature must insist on rigid adherence to all testing details if uniform results are to be achieved between different testing locations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advanicemenet of the science anid practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Formulas are developed and curves given for the magnetizing inrush current for a single-phase transformer. Series system inductance and resistance are included. The transformer is assumed to have no exciting current below saturation and constant saturated inductance above saturation. The formulas apply to circuits with either low or high resistance. The curves permit calculation of peak, average, or rms current, and show how these currents decay with time. The theory can also be used for certain cases where there is direct current in a transformer winding and also for certain types of phase controlled rectifiers supplying a series resistance and inductance load."
"This paper illustrates the application of a conditional probability approach to the determination of a reliability index at any point in a composite system. A general design criterion is postulated in terms of quality of service rather than continuity. Using a Markov approach, it is shown that the effect of storm associated failures on the system failure probabilities is dependent upon the degree of redundancy in the configuration under study. The effects of shunt compensation, on-load tap changing, and variations in allowable voltage levels on the reliability of a simple configuration are illustrated. Using the techniques described in this paper, it is possible to arrive at a measure of steady-state adequacy for any point in a system and, particularly, at those points at which major transmission terminates and subtransmission begins."
"Results of creep tests of all-aluminum conductors and ACSR at several temperatures are presented. Elevated temperatures have less influence on the creep of ACSR than on the creep of the all-aluminum conductors."
"Most faults on transmission lines are single line to ground (SLG). For such faults single-phase reclosing would result in an improvement in transient stability over the alternative of three-phase reclosing. The improvement is offset by the capacitive coupling from the other two energized conductors because it tends to sustain current in the original fault arc path, thereby lengthening the time required for arc deionization. An increase in dead time is therefore required which decreases the net improvement. This paper presents a novel method of nullifying the capacitive coupling effect. The method requires the addition of a capacitor, connected across the terminals of each breaker pole, proportional to the particular line being switched."
"The isolation of a section of a high-voltage transmission line or cable may leave the section charged to a voltage in the order of operating values. Upon automatic reclosing, dangerous transient overvoltages which may exceed tolerable overvoltage factors could be produced unless the isolated section is discharged to a small fraction of operating voltage. Of all the means presently available that act to discharge the section, including shunt devices and circuit- breaker resistors, the electromagnetic potential transformers (under conditions described in this paper) could be the most effective. A theoretical analysis of the discharge phenomena which permits determination of instantaneous voltage as a function of time is included."
"This paper describes a combination run-of-river and pumped storage hydro project with emphasis on automatic electrical controls. The plant is unattended and operation is fully automatic with remote control and telemetering via microwave. Motor starting is by reduced voltage, utilizing a corner delta connection on the unit transformer. Control logic diagrams are included in the paper. Electrical and mechanical protection is described."
"The synchronous starting method will be used at the Seneca Pumped Storage Plant when the two 220-MVA machines are started as motors. A 29-MVA generator will supply the driving power. Because the relative difference in machine size is greater than has been encountered in any existing plant, an extensive study was conducted to determine that reliable starting performance can be attained. Model tests and digital simulation have been used to investigate dynamic starting performance for a variety of conditions. A novel formulation of equations describing dynamic relationships of the two-machine system lends itself to efficient digital computation. Controls have been designed to permit reliable automatic remote control."
"The phenomena of stability of synchronous machines under small perturbations is explored by examining the case of a single machine connected to an infinite bus through external reactance."
"Ever since the application of cables for high voltages there has been a distinct difference in European and American practice for designing the dielectric. In Europe the design is based on the assumption that the maximum field strength (i.e., the stress at the conductor) determines the breakdown of the cable; in American practice the mean field strength throughout the dielectric is taken as the determining factor. Recently a Japanese paper on the design of oil-filled cable showed that the European practice should be extended by introducing a correction factor to provide for a broad field of conductor sizes and insulation thicknesses."
"A dual 69-kV high-pressure oil-filled pipe-type cable system was recently installed by the Southern California Edison Company, Los Angeles, Calif., to serve four offshore oil drilling islands in Long Beach Harbor. Each line is capable of carrying the entire load with parallel line out of service. A submarine pipeline was severed and repaired. Cable pulls, believed to be the longest on record, are discussed. Cable tests indicate higher permissible pulling tensions."
"On the basis of extensive corona detection experience on full reel testing of cables it is proposed that, in addition to corona level, a characteristic designated as \"corona factor\" be determined on each reel length of high-voltage cable with extruded conductor and insulation shields. The corona factor establishes the relationship between discharges in the cable and voltage stress over a stress range up to several times the operating level. In addition, it is proposed that full reel power factor measurements be made to provide a check on the resistivity of the extruded shields. The use of a novel continuous corona discharge detector in the laboratory to locate defects in the cable core, with insulation semiconducting shield in place, is described."
"The factors which affect the insulation strength of large compressed-gas-insulated systems were investigated. A coaxial electrode geometry of 10-inch outer diameter (OD) and either 3-or 4½-inch inner diameter (ID) was employed because of its applicability to large high-voltage apparatus currently under consideration, particularly gas-insulated cables. The power supply is a Van de Graaff generator with an 1800-kV dc capability. The study showed that the insulation strength of an annular gap can be improved by placing a thin layer of dielectric material on the inner conductor. A further improvement occurred when free conducting particles (FCPs) or metallic dirt was electrostatically precipitated from the system. With these improvements on the least favorable polarity, 1100 kV was insulated in 150 psi of SF ¶ and 850 kV in 300 psi of N ². With bare electrodes under similar conditions only 600 kV was insulated in SF ² and 450 kV in N ²."
"This paper describes a method to choose the physical parameters of a compressed-gas-insulated cable. A calculation of the power rating, losses, and critical length is carried out based on the physical parameters. This calculation is then compared with the ratings of pipe-type cable and is shown to be superior particularly for high-voltage, high-power applications."
"This paper is a continuation of the work started in [1] and is aimed at incorporating a model of the power system load with the generation system model developed previously. Combination of this load and the generation model permits computation of the availability, frequency of occurrence, and mean duration of generation reserve, or margin states. The results of this work are illustrated by continuation of a simple numerical example begun in Part I. The most widely applied of the previously developed techniques for assessing generation system reliability, the loss-of-load and loss-of-capacity methods, assume fixed outage or load duration intervals. The present model, on the other hand, uses an exponential distribution of durations. The reserve margin states developed using the exponential distributions contain data giving both the availability of each margin state and the expected frequency of recurrence. Previous methods yield only the availability of the reserve margin states, or else availability and frequency data for generating capacity states, not considering the load. The method presented and illustrated may be extended t o consider the calculation of operating reliability or the inclusion of the effects of a simple transmission system."
"Electromagnetic transients in arbitrary single- or multiphase networks are solved by a nodal admittance matrix method. The formulation is based on the method of characteristics for distributed parameters and the trapezoidal rule of integration for lumped parameters. Optimally ordered triangular factorization with sparsity techniques is used in the solution. Examples and programming details illustrate the practicality of the method."
"A unified approach to load-flow, minimum-loss, and economic dispatching problems is presented. A load-flow solution is shown to coincide with the minimum of a function of the power system equations. An unconstrained minimization method, developed by Fletcher-Powell, is used to solve the load-flow problem. The method always finds a solution or indicates the nonexistence of a solution. Its performance is highly independent of the reference- slack bus position and requires no acceleration factors. Several constrained minimization techniques that solve the minimum-loss and economic dispatching problems are investigated. These include the Fiacco-McCormick, Lootsma, and Zangwill methods. The technique finally recommended is shown to be an extension of the method used to solve the load-flow problem. The approved IEEE test systems, and other systems whose response to conventional methods was known, have been solved."
"A method has been developed suitable for on-line evaluation of contingencies that requires a relatively small computer. The effect on critical lines, produced by removing a line from service or by changing the generation schedule, can be determined as an on-line function of a computer that is installed in the system operator's office. The method can also be used by system planning personnel to reduce the number of detailed power flow cases that must be made in an expansion study."
"Equations (10) and (20) of the above-named work (ibid., vol. PAS-88, pp. 1-6, January 1969) are corrected."
"A general formulation of the economic dispatch problem is presented, based on the Lagrange multipliers approach. The necessary conditions are established and upon these conditions an algorithm is developed for real power and voltage magnitude dispatch (i.e., reactive power dispatch). Feasible solutions are always attained during the optimizing procedure. Basically the coordination equations have the same form of the Jacobian matrix for which efficient solution methods have already been developed. Very small additional work beside the necessary calculations for a load flow solution by Newton's method is required. All the equality constraints dual variables (Lagrangian multipliers) are calculated in the iterative procedure, but once the optimal solution is attained (within a specified precision) the additional dual variables of the Kuhn-Tucker theorem for the effective inequality constraints can be calculated. The feasibility of the method is shown by means of a sample system."
"A method is presented showing the use of the Markov process to determine the state probabilities of generating units as functions of time, i.e., the probabilities that at some given time, normally less than 24 hours, a unit will be in either the operating state, a derated state, or the forced-outage state. These probabilities can be used in a loss-of-load probability (LOLP) program for determining spinning reserve requirements."
"The block diagram reduction technique for reliability analysis is reviewed and compared with the use of the state transition matrix. It is pointed out that an efficient technique now exists for calculating system mean time between failures directly from the transition matrix, and this fact removes the major advantage possessed by the reduction technique. The superior flexibility of analysis using the transition matrix and the fewer approximations that are necessary seem to favor this approach for further power system applications."
"A fundamental basis has been developed for the use of a time-shared stored-program digital computer to perform many of the electrical power-system protective-relay functions in a substation. Logic operations are given to detect a fault, locate it, and initiate the opening of the appropriate circuit breakers, whether the fault is in the station or on lines radiating from the station."
"A method is described for simulating noncommutating electrical rotating machinery. The method is based on the expression of actual coil voltages and currents directly as contrasted with methods in which these coordinates are transformed along special axes. The voltage equations are integrated before computer simulation. This means that voltage inputs to the computer become integrated voltage inputs. Effectiveness of the method is demonstrated by simulating an electromagnetically balanced two-phase induction machine with input voltages of different frequencies. The simple addition of dc input to a rotor coil makes a synchronous machine simulation, which is illustrated for transient starting and short-circuit conditions. The straightforward representation of space MMF harmonics is demonstrated by the addition of a third harmonic of space distribution to the basic simulation. The method should be desirable for analysis of inverter or cycloconverter systems. It can be easily extended to unsymmetrical machines, and there are no restrictions against unsymmetrical inputs, as is amply illustrated by the results obtained with such extreme dissymmetry as inputs of different frequencies."
"A theoretical model has been developed for the hysteresis motor by solving Laplace's equation for the field in the air gap and the rotor ring subject to appropriate boundary conditions. The hysteresis phenomenon is accounted for through the use of an elliptical approximation for the hysteresis loop. The relation between the magnitude of the fundamental components of the B and H waves is assumed to be linear and the phase shift between them, due to hysteresis, is assumed to be constant. However, an iteration procedure is described to account for the nonlinearity in the actual machine. A similar approximation is used to represent the minor loops described by the harmonic components of the field, and the effect of MMF and slot harmonics on machine performance is thus estimated. Rigorous analysis predicts and evaluates the \"gap leakage field,\" which constitutes a part of the main field without penetrating the rotor material. The inclusion of this field in the model is shown to eliminate the nonrealistic assumption that the B and H waves in the rotor material are in phase. The model is used to evaluate the output torque and the EMF and power factor of the stator windings. A simple equivalent circuit is developed, in which the three fields present inside the machine, two in the air gap and one in the rotor, are represented by individual elements. The nonlinearity of the rotor material is represented in the equivalent circuit by a nonlinear impedance whose characteristics are directly predictable from the shape of the B-H curve. A comprehensive model has been obtained which is flexible enough to handle the different nonlinearities. It has been rigorously derived from the field equations, and therefore is expected to be very useful in further investigations of the hysteresis machine."
"A discussion is presented of the influence of the stator and rotor slotting on the torque characteristics of a squirrel-cage induction motor. The presence of airgap fields having long wavelength is demonstrated. It is shown that these fields exert a large effect on the torque characteristic. Formulas are given for the evaluation of the maximum asynchronous torques developed by the stator step harmonics. The differential leakage of the rotor is shown to have a dominant role in these phenomena."
"Paralleling the BIL insulation structure for impulse evaluation, a basic switching surge insulation level (BSL) is proposed which is more adaptable where switching surge insulation coordination is concerned. It provides 12 harmonically spaced divisions per octave (doubling of the kilovolt values) instead of eight nonuniform divisions over the same range as offered in the BIL structure. The BSL structure proposed offers a single set of kilovolt values which bear essentially the same ratio to the crest value of the maximum design voltage, line to ground (pu), for all of our four present or proposed EHV systems. The proposed values include the majority of the switching surge ratios now in use and are also based upon the recommended procedures of Z17.1 -1958, \"preferred numbers,\" in that a system of preferred numbers is used in its development. Sample applications are presented."
"The importance of testing current and voltage in high- power apparatus has been recognized for many years. Modern electric power systems, however, demand a synthetic testing facility that can meet present high-power needs. This paper offers a bibliography of the literature that has arisen concerning such methods up to 1966."
"Further investigations of the problem of synchronously starting a motor from a generator have been published recently with particular reference to the case of the generator being small relative to the motor. The authors' conclusion that this may be employed successfully when the generator rating is approximately only 15% of the motor rating is encouraging. They may be interested in the discussor's (Mr. Ridley's) experience in connection with machines of comparable size, but connected through two terminal transformers and a transmission line of 30 km this being appreciably longer than that referred to by Oliver and Hamlin. In replying, the original authors note that they are pleased to receive Mr. Ridley's discussion, as it is always very useful, as well as reassuring, to see the results of act ual experience. They remark first that a line length of 30 km is not very long, and the two transformers constitute most of the impedance intervening between the two generators of his case. Second, they assure Mr. Ridley th at 15% relative generator size was not at all intended as a lower limit. As pointed out in the original paper, the total armature circuit resistance is the significant factor, rather than the generator size per se, and they have described an approximate method for predicting whether or not any particular case will be successful. This method, incidentally, gives as one of its intermediate results the limit of generator speed, about which Mr. Ridley inquires in his last paragraph."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"A novel cross-flow arc system has been developed which permits the attainment of repeatable arc configurations, oriented in the vertical plane containing the horizontal upstream flow vector, symmetrical in cross section, and symmetrical with respect to the midlocation between the electrodes. A bow-shaped arc is found at lower currents (less than about 20 amperes); a cusp-shaped arc is obtained at higher currents (greater than about 40 amperes). A transition regime is observed at intermediate levels. A unique optical system has been developed in order to observe the arc simultaneously at many different azimuthal locations. With this system, and with the aid of an inversion method developed in [8], isotherm distributions within the arc have now been obtained for the first time. These isotherms, obtained in a horizontal plane near midlocation between the electrodes, indicate that the arc may be divided into a central core region, nearly circular in cross section, and an outer region wherein convective exchange probably predominates. For a given average through-flow velocity, the extent of the central core becomes greater as the current is increased. The cross-flow arc appears noncircular in cross section, with the major axis oriented in the direction of flow. The experiments were conducted in argon (at atmospheric pressure), at constant speed (43.8 cm/s), and constant electrode spacing (6.64 mm); arc current was varied in the range between 17.2 and 34.1 amperes."
"After reviewing the background of zero sequence impedance of pipe-type cables, the paper describes in general the longitudinal voltages induced in adjacent auxiliary cables due to a fault in power transmission systems. The magnitude of the induced voltage is influenced by the screening effect of the power cables. The screening factor and the impedance of the steel pipe have been measured in the laboratory by short-circuit tests on a 275-kV cable sample with a simulated ground return path. The results are used to illustrate the application in induced voltage calculations in a typical example."
"The permanent change in the physical strengths, rate of oxidation, dielectric loss, and electrical stability in 40-psig (142°C) steam and dielectric strength are reported for 13 elastomer-based insulation-jacket combinations after irradiation up to 108 rad in air at 5 ×105 rad/h from a cobalt 60 source. Threshold of damage for each property, overall threshold of damage, and highest dose rate still serviceable for the combinations are summarized. On the basis of these date, suggestions are made for IEEE nuclear environment classification of cable coverings rate for continuous 90°C and higher."
"Although the first low-pressure oil-filled cable operating at 60 kV and above was installed in the Western Hemisphere in 1927, there are still some utilities which are installing this type cable for the first time. Due to the increasing popularity of high- pressure pipe-type cable, very small amounts of this cable are being installed today."
"Users of pipe cable have a strong economic incentive to space manholes as far apart as possible. To attain this objective, it is necessary to have accurate information on the stresses developed in each conductor during the pulling operation. This paper describes a novel method of measuring tension on each conductor at the pulling head and presents the results obtained in installing about 6 miles (9.7 km) of 1250-kcmil 115-kV pipe-type cable."
"A mathematical analysis has been made to determine the constants of three-phase inductor alternators in terms of winding parameters. The flux distribution in the air gap on the basis of harmonic permeance distribution due to both stator and rotor slot openings has been found. Self- and mutual inductances of phase and field windings have been determined in terms of machine constants. Expressions for direct- and quadrature-axis synchronous reactances have been determined in terms of machine constants, as in the case of a salient-pole synchronous machine. An equivalent circuit has been established and performance has been calculated for a typical alternator of this type."
"Line-to-line unsymmetrical faults have been applied on the terminals of one type of inductor alternator, and the short- circuit currents have been found with the help of the well-known α, ß, 0 components. Also the difference between the ordinary synchronous machine and this type machine has been shown."
"A method of predicting the 6th-harmonic electromagnetic torque of an induction motor arising from a rectifier-inverter power source is presented. This study includes both the effects of harmonic variation rotor speed and inverter voltage. Although only the 6th harmonic is considered, it is shown that this is sufficiently accurate to predict steady-state system performance for practical speed ranges and system parameters. This investigation reveals that the 6th-harmonic electromagnetic torque pulsation may, at low frequencies, be significantly greater than that predicted by a constant speed, constant voltage analysis heretofore employed, and may materially affect the performance of the system."
"The conference paper listed has been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and is now open for written discussion until August 25, 1969. Duplicated double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to: IEEE Headquarters, Technical Conference Services, 345 East 47 Street, New York, N. Y. 10017, on or before August 25, 1969. The paper open for discussion is: 69 TP 176-PWR \"Comparison of Insulator Types by the Wet Contaminant and Clean Fog Test Methods\" by B. Macchiaroli and F.J. Turner."
"Simplified representations of a rectifier-inverter induction motor drive system are established and verified by comparing the results obtained from a computer study using these representations to those obtained using a detailed simulation of the system. It is shown that when all harmonic components are neglected the static drive system may be conveniently represented in the synchronously rotating reference frame. The computer simulation resulting from this type of representation can be readily implemented, and in many cases it will predict the system performance with sufficient accuracy. Also, in the analysis leading to these simplified representations, the operation of the inverter is analytically expressed in the synchronously rotating reference frame with the harmonic components due to the switching in the inverter included. These equations of transformation may be used to advantage in describing the interaction between the filter and the induction motor."
"A method is developed which allows a digital simulation for ground-mode switching surge response when the transmission line has a step source. First, general Maxwell's equations are used in a basic theory to calculate the exact and complex results. New approximations are then introduced to get simpler expressions of the linear charge of the line. The equations of the simulation are now obtained. The digital simulation is based mainly on the complicated property \"the more the ground-mode propagates, the more its delay increases.\" Other known properties are not compromised in the simulation. Formulas are presented which permit the calculation of the time-variable additional delay. Curves given by simulation are presented which can be compared with that given by calculation or that obtained by test oscillograms. When the ground mode is simulated, time delay method can be used."
"The behavior of clustered fluffy snowflakes in an alternating electric field is analyzed. The resistivity of wet snow, however high, still produces an almost complete short circuiting of the internal cluster capacitance if the frequency is of the industrial level. The influence of snowflakes is under these circumstances very nearly the same as if they were perfect conductors; the macroscopic dielectric constant of the atmosphere is increased as well as corona losses [1]."
"The relationship between the linear parameters of a power network can be described in two distinct forms. One form is an expression of nodal currents in terms of admittances and nodal voltages. A second form is an expression of branch voltages in terms of impedances and branch currents. The elimination method of solution can directly incorporate either or both of these forms. The technique removes many of the assumptions commonly used in network solutions without significantly increasing the complexity of the data preparation, the solution time, or the computer storage requirements. The method is a direct matrix technique, and the solution time and storage requirements vary approximately in direct proportion to the system size. Large systems can be solved in sections and equivalents conveniently obtained for each section."
"An analytical model for the shielding of transmission lines against lightning is extended to the case of partially effective shielding, including the effect of possible leader approach angle distributions. Results of the Pathfinder projects are brought up to date, and the data are shown to be consistent with the model. An index number is developed to aid in classifying line performance, and suggestions are made regarding the study of the backflash problem."
"The use of shunt reactors with EHV transmission lines has introduced new problems, one of which is induction of high voltages on a de-energized circuit of two parallel lines. This paper presents the matrix equations used in developing a digital computer program which takes into account the effects of electromagnetic induction, electrostatic coupling, distributed lines, and transposition. The computer program may also be used to calculate the effects of shunt reactors, series capacitors, and loads. The equations can be adapted to a wide range of applications, although the examples for this paper have been limited to the near resonance problem of parallel transmission lines."
"With the introduction of extra-high-voltage transmission lines, various abnormal transient conditions are particularly significant, and a practical means of studying such phenomena is of primary concern to the electrical utility engineer. A method of simulating transmission lines utilizing the electronic differential analyzer is described. The appropriate form of the traveling-wave equations is presented whereby a completely general computer setup is realized suitable for any kind of line-terminating conditions. The simulation was achieved by constructing a multiple-channel pure transport delay time unit. Several examples of practical application are presented in which overvoltages are determined due to transmission-line switching surges."
"A complete extension of [26] assembles 50 curves of the percentage frequencies against the crest values of the lightning currents. These curves are collected from 35 publications and from numerous letters exchanged with research workers. However, only about 30 curves could be presented in this paper. We chose all available American curves and two curves from the Polish most precise records. Polish curve 1' is presented as relatively precise. The oldest American results are spoiled by enormous errors. Four sources of errors had been stated in [26], and two others have been presently added. Old current values are frequently too small by a factor of about 2. Nevertheless, some American curves are not far from the Polish curves. Corrections have been applied to the most important American curves. Afterwards a comparison of curves for the rates of the rise of lightning currents obtained in Poland, in the U.S.A., and in some other countries have been presented. Values about 100 kA/*#x003BC;s are not rare in Poland. Several causes of great errors in former values which were too small have been explained. Some controversies and doubts have been dealt with. Some newer results conform with the Polish curve."
"Radio noise levels under rain of 4-conductor bundles installed at les Renardières experimental station have remained remarkably constant during the first two years of operation. These levels are reached as soon as the rain intensity exceeds 0.01 mm /min. It is therefore possible to predetermine accurately the radio noise level under rain of a line equipped with 4-conductor bundles depending on the surface gradient and the radius of the subconductors."
"System insulation requirements on EHV systems, especially above 345 kV, are predominantly a function of switching surge overvoltages. Modem lightning arrester and circuit breaker technology and increased knowledge and understanding of insulation systems relative to switching surges have allowed substantial economics at higher transmission levels."
"The results of laboratory studies and preliminary field tests exploring the effects of conductor size and bundling on audible and visual phenomena associated with corona in wet weather are presented. Tubular conductors in five diameters of 1.063 to 2.375 inches were tested. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first paper to systematically develop the information necessary to estimate audible noise and the visual aspects of conductor corona on the variety of conductor sizes used for 345 kV to 765 kV and higher."
"Experimental and theoretical methods for determining the surge impedance of towers are presented. It is demonstrated that the values so obtained adequately describe the response of the tower when a transmission line is struck by lightning. A right cone representation for conventional double-circuit steel towers is proposed, and a theoretical analysis using field theory yields the surge impedance as Z= 60 ln (2/S) where S is the sine of the half-angle of the cone."
"A dc transmission system proved to be the most economic mode for moving power from the Nelson River to southern Manitoba. This paper presents discussion on several studies, such as sending-end filtering, stability, load flow, and dc filter requirements. The electrical design of the lines is discussed, and a concept for determination of mid-span ground clearance is presented."
"After a brief description of the physical phenomena of ionization, charge movement, and ionic recombinations, a very schematic description of the corona cycle results in a loss law which, in particular, shows the influence of the conductor capacity. A more accurate calculation method is then described, the results of which agree very well with experience. This law enables the conductor losses to be determined beyond the critical voltage by the sole determination of its critical gradient."
"In 1966 the design of a 765-kV transmission line network was instigated in the AEP System. This construction project was started in 1967 and is to be completed by 1972. The overall development, design, and construction features of this project, to date, are reviewed."
"This paper discusses the design and application of EHV and ultrahigh-voltage (UHV) disconnecting switches. It reports on the results of comprehensive electrical and mechanical tests conducted on 765-kV vertical break and vertical reach switches. Electrical clearances, both line-to-ground and line-to-line, are reviewed. Finally, statements are made concerning 1100-kV switch designs in view of possible reduction in switching surge impulse levels from 2.1 to 1.5 pu."
"Theoretical calculation of corona losses for practical unipolar dc transmission line configurations presents considerable difficulty because of the nonlinear nature of the equations describing the space-charge fields. The application of numerical methods to obtain solutions of practical interest is discussed. One of the difficulties in the analysis of space-charge fields is the determination of the actual charge distribution around the conductor in the corona. A numerical iterative method of computing this charge distribution is presented. The method is applicable to any general configuration for which the space-charge-free field can be calculated. The line- to-plane configuration is considered. A method of including the effect of conductor surface irregularities in the theoretical calculation of corona losses is outlined, and it is suggested that, by the same method, Popkov's formula may also be modified to make it applicable to lines with practical transmission-line conductors. Calculations by the method of analysis developed as well as by the modified Popkov equation are compared with experimental results."
"A high-accuracy method of calculating skin-effect resistance and reactance of nonmagnetic stranded overhead power transmission conductors is described. This method uses an equivalent network approach and takes into account the effects due to wire spiraling, as well as the proximity effect between strands and the nonuniform current distribution in each strand. It produces results of greater accuracy than manufacturing tolerances usually warrant for overhead transmission conductors and requires a very small investment in computation cost. A table of skin-effect resistance factors that covers a wide range of standard aluminum conductors has been computed."
"A new design of aluminum conductor, steel reinforced (ACSR) which combines greater strength than conventional single-layer ACSR with lower losses is described. This design incorporates intermixed aluminum and steel wires in the two outer layers. In this way it is possible to reduce iron losses considerably. The new type of conductor should be useful in very long spans, e.g., in river crossings. A method of analysis useful for predicting electrical performance of such conductors with conventional ACSR as a limiting case is given. This method employs both analog and digital techniques first to determine the nature of the interactions between currents in various parts of the conductor and subsequently to solve for the current distribution in it. The conductor power loss and resistance are then readily determinable."
"During normal operation the prime-mover speed governors function principally as stabilizers, automatic power-frequency control taking over the job of maintaining tie-line power schedules, frequency, and time. The prime importance of dead band is reemphasized. During disturbances governors affect both frequency drop and relatively long-term power swings, but generation schedules are of equal importance in certain cases."
"This paper emphasizes the need for a correct representation of electrical loads in stability studies. Several series of load-voltage tests performed on the Southern California Edison Company system are described. The test results are summarized and used as the basis for individual bus load representation."
"It is the major objective of this paper to present the use of multicomputer configurations in the dispatch of real power in power pools. It is shown that the area dispatch computers, upon the formation of power pools, can form a multicomputer configuration. The characteristics of such a configuration are outlined and a computer hierarchy presented. Both the single-area as well as the multiarea approaches to the power dispatch problem are formulated and their associated modeling described. A number of novel methods for the instant-by-instant dispatch of real power are given. Three multiarea methods are described in detail which have been called 1) pool boundary cost iteration method, 2) pool *#x003BB;ratio method, and 3) pool base point and participation factor method."
"Changes in the network such as connecting shunt- resistor brakes, disconnecting generators or load, and inserting series capacitors, each rapidly accomplished under suitable control, can counteract other sudden, undesired changes in the network (short circuits or accidental loss of loads or generators) which threaten the stability of interties. The countermeasures taken should match the disturbance with respect to location, amount, duration, and dependence on angular difference. Such measures can improve stability of interties more economically than can construction of additional circuits."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover of the May 1969 issue of the IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems (Vol PAS-88, No 5, Pt 2)."
"IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems is published monthly by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., 345 East 47 Street, New York, NY 10017, and at 20th and Northampton Sts., Easton, PA 18042. Responsibility for the contents rests upon the authors and not upon the IEEE, the Group, or its members. Individual copies may be purchased at the following prices: IEEE members (one copy) $2.50; public libraries and colleges $3.75 in the USA and Canada, $4.25 elsewhere. Others $5.00 in USA and Canada, $5.50 elsewhere. Annual subscription price: IEEE members, dues plus Group fee. Price for nonmembers available on request. Abstracting is permitted with mention of source. All rights, including translation, are reserved by the IEEE. Requests for republication permission should be addressed to the IEEE Editorial Department, 345 East 47 Street, New York, NY 10017. Copyright (c) 1969 by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Printed in USA at Mack Printing Company, 20th and Northampton Sts., Easton, PA 18042. Secondclass postage paid at Easton, PA. IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems are registered trademarks belonging to the IEEE."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advanicemenet of the science anid practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Techniques and methods are presented for conducting simplified power-flow calculations in power pools by employing the simultaneous computing capability of the computers in the separate areas of the pool."
"A program that compares substation summer peak-load forecasts with actual early summer loads which have been adjusted to normal summer peak weather conditions is described. The comparsion shows which forecasts appear low relative to the adjusted early summer loads. Used with substation capability, the results show which substations will become critically loaded sooner than present forecasts indicate. The advantage gained from the method is that necessary equipment changes can be made in a more orderly manner."
"A procedure for determining economic schedules of generation for use in planning studies involving large systems is presented. These schedules are achieved by combining a load flow and dispatching routine with the calculation of incremental losses. The predominate feature is the technique used to calculate the incremental losses. Whereas previous methods required the inverse of the nodal admittance matrix for the inclusion of system losses, this operation has been replaced with a linear iterative scheme. As a result, this procedure is particularly suited to large systems."
"The valve-point loading logic described in this paper is intended to meet at any time in the most economical fashion a generation commitment. This objective is approached by insuring that as great a portion of the load as practicable will be carried by units loaded to valve points, that the remainder of the load will be carried by units reserved for regulation, and that in both categories the assignments will be made to those units which can provide the requisite capacity at the lowest cost."
"The development of a new type of solid-state protective relay which senses both frequency and rate-of-change of frequency is outlined. The design considerations and principles of operation of this relay are explained with respect to modern load reduction concepts. The theory of operation of the device and how it can be applied in an electric power system are discussed. Finally, possible future applications of the philosophy of rate compensated protection are presented."
"Closure of the ties to interconnect power systems across the continent has imposed new relaying problems for which new solutions have been developed. A special relay has been monitoring the East-West Intertie since it was reestablished December 3, 1967. It is designed to sense conditions of the interarea tie and to anticipate when interchange is approaching difficulty. Power, rate-of-change of power, and oscillation quantities are employed. The relay, installed at the Yellowtail Power Plant in Montana, also effects transfer tripping at Fort Peck, Mont., and at Stegall, Neb., for prompt, clean East-West separations with minimum disturbance to the systems."
"The 1100-kV Waltz Mill project is a research center being constructed to permit life testing of underground transmission systems. The selection and high-voltage laboratory verification of the 1100-kV bus conductors are described. A six-conductor bundle with a 2.5-inch subconductor was selected for the upper strain bus, and a four-conductor bundle having a 5-inch (IPS) subconductor was chosen for the lower rigid bus. Laboratory radio influence tests show the validity of radio influence selection techniques. Laboratory measurements of audible noise due to conductor corona in heavy rain indicate the audible noise of 1100-kV lines may be in excess of that experienced on 500-kV lines."
"The extent to which underground distribution systems are now being constructed and planned for the future necessitates identifying a preferred design consistent with present performance requirements and minimum cost objectives. This study analyzes many variations in design of a representative underground distribution circuit from these viewpoints. This analysis consists of a step-by-step procedure using specific work functions to synthesize interruption times resulting from both planned and forced outages. The designs considered represent variations in application of fault indicators, fault interrupters, and load-break switches. Development of circuit outage rates permits identification of annual interruption rates as seen by the average customer and by the last customer restored to service. Relating this performance of each circuit design investigated to the incremental cost associated with that design permits identification of an overall preferred design."
"The thermal performance of an instrumented distribution transformer in a vault was measured and compared for still air ambients and low-speed wind with various covers (grates and caps) and flow-control barriers and splitters. Correlations for free convection from the tank and vault as well as correlations of the thermal impedances due to air recirculation for various cover and flow-control designs were obtained using the data and thermal network analysis of the radiant and convective transfers. Data show distributions of oil, tank wall and cover temperatures, heat fluxes, and thermal conductances."
"In order to determine major trends in 500-kV substation design practices, a survey was made of ten major electric utility systems in the United States and Canada. These findings are presented in tabular form for easy comparison of design features. Major variations in data are identified by an asterisk and are explained in the accompanying discussion following the tabulation. These data should be invaluable to those companies having 500-kV systems under study and will serve as a permanent record of the state-of-the-art. The Working Group has prepared similar data on Hydro Quebec's 735-kV system and American Electric Power Company's 765-kV system, which will be published in a separate report."
"Impulse breakdown voltages of oil-paper-insulation systems show considerable scatter. Impulse withstand voltages associated with a certain low probability of breakdown can only be determined if the probability of breakdown as a function of the voltage is known. This probability function can be determined by means of test results. The test can be carried out on a series of about 20 simplified models by applying impulse voltages of increasing magnitude until breakdown occurs. Assuming that the variations occurring between specimens are negligible, i. e., the considerable scatter of the measured values is significantly due to the breakdown process, the probability that breakdown will occur for the first time at a particular voltage level is dependent on whether or not breakdown occurs at the lower levels. On the other hand, if the scatter is considerably caused by variations occurring between specimens rather than by the breakdown process, the influence of the lower levels prior to the breakdown voltage can be neglected. In both cases the experimental determination of the expected probability function is dealt with. Test results show that the scatter of the measured values is fundamental to the variations occurring between specimens rather than to the breakdown process."
"The first high-pressure pipe-type cable in the Western Hemisphere operating at 69 kV and above was installed in 1932. At the present time there is in operation over 2000 circuit miles operating in the range of 69 to 345 kV. There are many utilities which will be installing this system for the first time and it is hoped that information contained in this paper will aid in selecting the type required for their requirements."
"The paper deals with mica-loaded kraft paper developed with the aim of applying it to the extra-high-voltage oil-filled (OF) cable and pipe-type OF cable and an outline of an experimental 275-kV OF cable containing mica-loaded kraft paper."
"Cross-linked polyethylene is now being used for cables of higher and higher voltage. However, cross-linked polyethylene cables must have a considerable thickness of insulation, and efforts have been made to reduce it as far as possible. Research to attain further improvement in this respect has led to success in the development of a new type of power cable. This new type of cable is made by extruding cross-linked polyethylene over a stranded or hollow conductor and has a specially selected liquid between the conductor and the insulation at all times. It is a cable having an excellent voltage stability. In this report are mentioned various fundamental data obtained in the course of the development of such a liquid-filled type cross-linked polyethylene cable and the characteristics of this cable."
"New data have been added to the information available on the electric fields during thunderstorms. The new data consist of records of the potential gradients that exist on the earth's surface in the vicinity of lightning strokes. Records have been obtained within 150-200 feet of known stroke locations. To the best of the authors' knowledge this has not been accomplished before. Based on the information obtained, a relation has been derived between the estimated gradient and the distance from the stroke. Also, an estimate is made of the potentials induced by nearby lightning strokes in a conductor at the height of a typical distribution system."
"The zero-sequence current distribution among ground wires and the ground-return path of overhead transmission lines is subject to change in the vicinity of a ground fault and the feeding point. This paper introduces the concepts used in connection with the end-effect phenomena of transmission lines and describes the necessity for solving the end-effect current distribution. After dealing with the influential factors and basic assumptions, it describes a new calculation method which can be extended to develop generalized equations. The procedures to be followed in the case of ground faults supplied from either one or both sides are detailed. A summary of field tests is also included. The deviations between the measured and the computed values are found to be less than 15 percent. Several cases were studied to investigate the effect of factors, such as ground-wire material, tower-footing resistance, soil resistivity, and distance between feeding point and fault."
"This paper reports the results of field tests conducted on the Northern States Power Company's 345-kV transmission system which investigated the effects of various system switching operations on transient overvoltages. Following the field tests a transient network analyzer was used to duplicate the field tests and then explore the maximum switching transients which system parameters could produce."
"The approaching possibilities of construction of 1000- 1500-kV ac power transmission, together with the extensive introduction of 330-750-kV transmission provide good grounds for a timely statement of the problem of optimization of the conductor design for EHV lines."
"The conference papers listed have been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and are now open for written discussion until September 25, 1969. Duplicated double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be submitted, on or before September 25, 1969. The papers are: (69 TP 87-PWR) \"Basic Characteristics of Corona Detector Calibrators\" by G. Mole and (69 TP 88-PWR) \"Measurement of the Magnitude of Internal Corona in Cables\" by G. Mole."
"The purpose of this paper is to study the effect of incorporating a dc exciting winding on the stator of a reluctance machine which also carries the phase windings. From the normal analysis of a generalized model of a rotating machine, it is possible to conclude that two types of synchronous machines are possible: 1) when the periodicities of the stator phase and field windings are the same and their sum equals the number of salient members of the rotor (similar to a salient pole machine) and 2) when the periodicities of the phase and field windings are not the same but their sum equals the number of salient members of the rotor. The electrical behavior is similar to that of a cylindrical rotor machine. The two types will be designated as nonuniform reluctance machine and uniform reluctance machine, respectively."
"The purpose of this paper is to establish formal d-q rotating real transformation equations for the synchronous operation of a class of reluctance machines provided with a dc exciting winding on the stator; and similar transformation equations for asynchronous operation of those machines with two orthogonal axes α, β fixed on the stator or rotating along with the rotor. In synchronous operation the rotor is assumed to carry no current whereas in asynchronous operation, the stator field is considered absent and the salient rotor is assumed to carry an N-phase short-circuited cage winding. For simplicity the end ring circuit is not considered. The d-q transformations result in equations which singularly point out the two types of machines considered in Part I of the paper behaving in the fashion of either a cylindrical rotor synchronous machine in which the axis reactances are equal or as a salient pole synchronous machine in which the axis reactances are not equal."
"A major constraint on the performance prediction of a hysteresis machine arises from the parasitic losses associated with the rotor magnetic material. These losses can be high enough to absorb much of the developed torque, particularly for small sizes and large numbers of poles. In this paper the phenomena which cause parasitic losses are examined in detail. Analytical expressions are developed to predict these losses in terms of the air-gap field and the stator current."
"Methods of analyzing six-step and pulse-width- modulated (PWM) types of rectifier-inverter reluctance-synchronous motor drive systems are set forth. In this development the harmonic components due to the switching of the rectifier are neglected, and the operation of the inverter is expressed in a reference frame rotating in synchronism with the fundamental frequency of the inverter output voltages. In the case of the PWM inverter, the Fourier series expansion of a pulse train is used to express the operation of this type of inverter in the synchronously rotating reference frame. Simplified representations are obtained by neglecting the harmonics due to the inverter switching. These simplified representations are verified by comparing the results obtained from a computer study using these representations to those obtained using a detailed simulation of the system. The analysis set forth and the simplified representations that are developed can be used to determine small-displacement system stability, as well as provide a simple and direct technique of predicting the dynamic and steadystate performance of these involved systems. Moreover, the equations established for the PWM inverter can also be used in conjunction with an induction motor drive."
"The homopolar generator used for speed measurement has no potential drop across the brushes. Consequently, the number of conductors and brushes can be increased so that the generated voltage is at a useful level. Since the homopolar generator is a real dc machine it has the great advantage of having no commutator ripple to limit accuracy."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists soiety officiers and members as of March 1969."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"This paper presents a concise summary of results obtained from a rigorous analysis of the factors influencing the transient fault currents in an EHV rectifier terminal for a fault on the line side of the dc series reactor. The effect of the exact instant of fault occurrence after the time of completion of a commutation is shown to have special significance. It is also shown that the maximum transient peak currents, even for an \"instantaneous\" control system, may be on the order of 2.0 times nornal or more for representative dc series inductances when initial load is considered. For a less ideal or slower control system, greater maximum peak transient fault currents are found. Furthermore, saturation of the dc series reactor is shown to result in larger currents. Results for two and three bridges in series, as well as for a single bridge, are given in curve form for convenience of the user."
"A general approach to the computation of current harmonics is presented for the ac side of HVDC transmission installations considering both normal and abnormal harmonics that can arise from harmonic distortion of the supply waveform and perturbations in the control firing pulses. Attention is given to 12- pulse converter operation and to alternative types of automatic control. A comprehensive digital computer program is described and examples of computed harmonics are given."
"To reduce troubles and measuring errors during high-voltage impulse testing, modem test plants often are provided with metal plates or grids placed in or on the floor and used as the return lead for the currents on the ground side. It is shown by a theoretical analysis that such a plate or grid constitutes a considerable improvement over the conventional conductors earlier used as ground returns. It is also shown that the difference in performance of a grid and a plate is rather small if the type of grid is properly chosen. This may considerably reduce the costs of the ground return systems in large test plants."
"Although the use of line-entrance lightning arresters provides absolute protection for an open breaker condition, it represents a costly installation. No line entrance protection represents some risk of breaker damage. Line entrance rod gaps offer a compromise between these extremes. This paper discusses the probabilities of failures using these three alternatives and describes a procedure whereby the spacing of the line-entrance gap can be determined. Since this procedure depends on the particular configuration of the gap being used, test data are presented on one particular configuration used on a 345-kV system. Based on these data, recommended gap spacings for 345-and 500-kV systems are developed."
"To avoid switching overvoltages when closing circuit breakers on long EHV lines, closing resistors are now being used on the breakers. The authors propose separating the resistors from the breakers. This results in technical and economic advantages."
"For system voltages above 500 kV the conventional one-step resistor cannot limit switching surge overvoltages to the desired level of 1.7 per unit or less. This paper presents the results of an analog computer study of four possible methods of controlling switching surge overvoltages with a breaker and/or resistors. The alternatives studied include synchronous control of closing without a resistor, a ganged three-resistor breaker, a ganged two-resistor breaker, and a controlled closing two-resistor breaker. Overvoltage limits and breaker timing criteria are obtained for each alternative."
"Methods are presented for the calculation of circuit-breaker transient recovery voltage. The initial portion of the transient is treated as a traveling wave that is reflected from line terminations back to the breaker, adding to the original voltage wave. A number of refinements in reflection coefficients are considered, each successively increasing the accuracy of the result. The assumptions used in the approach result in a conservative approximation of the actual transient recovery voltage."
"This paper presents a control effect of automatic frequency ratio control (AFRC) on an HVDC transmission to the AFC on ac systems when AFRC is applied to a random load disturbance in a steady state. The analysis of dynamic response of an ac-dc transmission system has been made by an analog computer. The frequency-improving and reduction effects of the output power of regulating power stations by AFRC are statistically analyzed by a digital computer."
"In the present stage of HVDC transmission technique, future applications may be outlined for which a multiterminal operation of HVDC converter stations would appear necessary or desirable. Simple problems, such as tapping of an HVDC transmission, can be solved by means of the known control and protection methods of the two-terminal operation. An unrestricted multiterminal operation, however, involves a number of additional requirements that relate to the control and protection equipment. For instance, it demands balancing of the reference values of all converter stations, which can be realized with a central electronic equipment. But it is also possible to indicate control methods for multiterminal operation that do not call for central reference value balancing and special communication facilities between the different stations. A problem of particular importance in multiterminal operation is the dc circuit breaker. The functions to be assumed by such an HVDC breaker may be derived from its interaction with the electronic control and protection equipment."
"The conventional converter consumes reactive power by virtue of the lagging power factor inherent in normal operation. Operation at leading power factor requires commutation in the region (α+ u) > π. This can be achieved through artificial commutation by reversing the valve-to-valve voltage during the commutation period. In a two-converter station the vars so generated can be supplied to a conventional converter operating in parallel on the ac side and, ideally, the station capacitive reactance can be reduced to that required for satisfactory harmonic filtering."
"Since spring 1966, statistical investigations of corona losses and radio interference from a dc test line have been performed in the Dossenwald Research Station near Mannheim- Rheinau, Germany. After one year's observation, resulting in 28 000 measurements, the principal influence of weather on these values could be estimated. Additional studies on individual problems by way of short-time tests brought further information. Thus the behavior of this line can be predicted with reasonable accuracy."
"The paper presents an investigation of the electrostatic field of a system of infinitely long parallel cylindrical conductors. Existing analytical techniques can be used only to solve rigorously the field of simple geometries such as a single conductor over a ground plane or inside a grounded cylinder and an isolated two-conductor bundle. Until now only approximate analytical solutions have been obtained for the more practical multiconductor systems; in these, each conductor is represented by a line charge at its center."
"The special winding connections used in certain dual voltage or multiple-speed single-phase induction motors lead to large, even order MMF harmonics. The calculation procedures used to evaluate machines of this type must include proper representation of these harmonics. This paper develops the general describing equations for a two-phase machine with arbitrary MMF distributions. These equations are then specialized to yield harmonic equivalent circuits for steady-state operation. Proper interconnection of these harmonic circuits yields equivalent circuits representing actual machine windings. Examples are given, including circuits for representation of consequent pole windings. A numerical example of a machine operating with only its north poles excited is also included."
"The double-rotor induction motor differs from a drag-cup motor in that the rotor is closed at both ends, necessitating the pivoting of the core inside the rotor. Since the core can carry current and is free to rotate, its characteristics affect the speed-torque characteristics of the rotor. The analysis of such a motor, including spatial harnonics, is outlined and it is shown that, in general, the core reduces the torque-to-inertia ratio of the rotor and that a low-loss core is necessary for good performance."
"Economic and efficient two-speed, single-winding, single-phase induction motor of any pole ratio using normal coils with independent starting and good running performances is shown possible with only four terminals taken out from the winding. The rotor is of conventional squirrel-cage type. The design is based on a novel theory known as nonintegral cycle modulation and is described in full. Experimental results are presented in support of the theory for a 4/6 pole combination in prototype machines."
"The development of the drag-cup construction of induction motors of ratings of the order of 5 hp for control-system applications is described. Consideration is given to the suitability of these machines for the conventional two-phase method of control and the variable-frequency application."
"The conventional diagram of the synchronous machine accurately represents only the stator circuit. It will be shown with the aid of examples that transients for rotor quantities (rotor voltage, rotor current, etc.) can also be predetermined with satisfactory accuracy if calculations are based on equivalent diagrams correctly representing field and damper as well as stator circuits."
"Direct- and quadrature-axis equivalent circuits are developed for solid-rotor turbine generators. The equivalent circuits model, in considerable detail, important current-carrying paths in the rotor in addition to the excitation winding. Impedance equations are formulated so that a valid representation can be obtained over a wide range of frequencies. Operational solution of the equivalent circuits provides a powerful means for accurate analytical description of generator performance during many types of transient conditions, such as faults and other system disturbances, excitation system forcing, and asynchronous operation. In addition to providing improved accuracy of representation of generator terminal characteristics, solution of the circuits provides a wealth of valuable generator design information."
"The procedure for returning a cross-compound set to the line following load rejection and loss of excitation is complicated by the diverging \"coast-down\" characteristics of the two turbine-generators. The first phase of a resynchronizing procedure is to bring the speeds of the two generators to the same per-unit value. This paper presents the analytical study of the resynchronizing process, specifically as it was applied to Commonwealth Edison Company's Will County no. 4 set. The two-pole 332-MVA and four-pole 308-MVA units were successfully resynchronized from a range of speed differentials up to 0.4 pu by applying rated open-circuit field excitation to one unit."
"The procedure for retuming a cross-compound set to the line following load rejection and loss of excitation is complicated by the diverging \"coast-down\" characteristics of the two turbine-generators. The first phase of a resynchronizing procedure is to bring the speeds of the two generators to the same per-unit value. Test results of the resynchronizing process, specifically as it was applied to Commonwealth Edison Company's Will County no. 4 are presented here. The two-pole 332-MVA and four-pole 308-MVA units were successsfully resynchronized from a range of speed differentials up to 0.4 pu by applying rated open-circuit field excitation to one unit."
"Asynchronous transients of a salient pole synchronous machine are studied in this paper. The results of the theoretical analysis, justified by both analog computer and experimental means, are used in explaining the airgap magnetic field space variations and the phase current time variations that occur in a synchronous machine with salient poles during its asynchronous starting transient. This study can also be applied in analyzing other phenomena of synchronous machine transients, for instance, speed-torque characteristics, and magnetic field angular velocity as a function of slip."
"In the April, 1969, issue of this Transactions the following paper was omitted from the Table of Contents: \"Compressed-Gas Insulation in Large Coaxial Systems\" by H.C. Doepken, Jr., starting on page 364."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"An IBM 7094 digital computer is used to solve a small load-flow problem by an iterative nodal technique. Using an IBM 1620 computer the same flow problem is solved using a simplified loop method approach. From comparison of these results, the simplified method appears acceptable for small single-loop systems not requiring greater than 7-percent accuracy."
"The conference paper listed below has been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and is now open for written discussion until November 25, 1969. Duplicated double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to: IEEE Headquarters, Technical Conference Services, 345 East 47 Street, New York, NY 10017, on or before November 25, 1969. (69 TP 76-PWR) \"Flaw and Fracture Phenomena in Electrical Porcelain\" by D. Fiero, B.F. Dewey, and J.E. Crocker."
"This paper presents an extension in the use of probability techniques for analyzing a system's generation reserve position. A probabilistic capacity model is merged with a load model to develop the expected frequency distribution of daily capacity margins; an analysis of the computed capacity margins leads to the direct determination of a system's dependence upon and contribution to a total generating reserve situation as a member of a coordinating group. This technique provides the necessary data upon which judgment and decision can be based in comparing alternate capacity expansion plans, timing capacity additions, or allocating the capacity responsibility among members of a coordinating group."
"The primary windings of generator transformers in general and tertiary windings in most applications are exposed to lightning indirectly or practically are unexposed. For these windings, the usual chopped-wave and full-wave impulse tests will suffice. Front- of-wave impulse tests are not justified in these applications."
"Many kinds of partial discharge detectors are available, and many kinds of windings are adopted for EHV transformers, where propagation of partial discharge pulses is characterized mainly by series capacitance. The acoustic method is predominantly used for partial discharge location, because of the present scarcity of investigations on the electrical location method."
"Analytical and probability techniques are applied to the evaluation of substation expansion plans and transformer loading policies. The method develops the probabilities of exceeding maximum transformer temperatures and the expected loss of transformer life utilizing local historical substation load and ambient temperature environmental conditions. Alternate substation expansion plans to meet forecast area load are compared on the basis of cost versus reliability."
"Application of overload ratings to power transformers is considered in the light of 30 years of operating experience. A comprehensive description is given of the philosophy of overloading, methods of calculation, transformer life curves, and a working computer program which incorporates these factors with increased accuracy and reduced engineering time. Recommendations are made regarding life curves, ambient temperature selection, resistance correction for temperature variations, and daily load-cycle evaluation."
"This paper provides a description of a generation system planning technique employing Markov chain representations of generation system and load models. The results of two previous papers, which described methods for calculating generation system reserve margin states, are used to develop the planning technique. Studies of generation system expansion using the technique are described. For the first time, numerical relationships are developed between generation system reliability measured by the \"loss-of-load probability\" method and the \"frequency and duration\" method. Sample load statistics representing many company years of data are offered in substantiation of the load model."
"The presentation of a unified method for power system reliability calculations is continued. Techniques are presented for determining the availabilities and frequencies of occurence of the capacity states which may arise with multiple boiler-turbines or with recognition of the forced partial outage states of unit-connected boiler-turbines. A comparison is offered of the effects of lumping partial capacity outages into equivalent total forced outages upon generation system reliability predictions. Several numerical examples are shown to illustrate the methods developed. For several examples studied, simple equivalents with a reduced number of states were developed which were found to be excellent approximations to the complete Markov chain description of the stochastic processes involved."
"A comprehensive study of lightning protection of over- head distribution circuits has just been completed by a Task Force consisting of eight utility companies and the General Electric Company. Most overhead circuit configurations in use today-or contemplated for use in the future-were studied. This included system voltages from 4-34.5 kV. The use of an overhead ground wire, arrester on the top phase only, or arresters on all phases were studied to determine for each circuit configuration the relative degree of protection required in order to establish a certain outage performance rate. The study pertains only to line protection. However, a brief discussion of the interrelated factors between line and equipment protection is covered in [10]."
"This paper describes the application of the model study results when estimating the lightning performance of various line configurations and types of lightning protection. Also described are the field tests to be used to verify the study results and the problems of evaluation."
"New and revised definitions are presented for excitation systems as applied to electric utility synchronous machines with particular emphasis given to the application of solid-state devices and to terminology common to feedback control systems."
"Control of rotating exciters to improve system damping has been carried forward in pilot applications to evaluate practicality, effectiveness, alinement needs, and operating characteristics. The first application to this type of exciter system has been in operation since July 1967. These pilot applications include exciters with rotating amplifier regulators and with static regulators. Information yield has been high. New control requirements have been indicated and satisfied. Tests and alinement procedures, application criteria, and auxiliary techniques have been developed. Results have been gratifying."
"Damping of synchronous machines by means of rapid response excitation control is analyzed for a one-field and two-field machine connected through a line impedance to an infinite bus. Emphasis is placed on the influence of the control parameters upon the damping characteristics of a conventional one-field machine. Regions of instability which may occur due to improper controller design or adjustment are established. Optimization of controller parameters and the effect of controller compensation are considered. Also, the damping characteristics of a two-field machine are presented and compared with those of a one-field machine. The application of the two-field machine to damp frequency oscillations in power systems has the potential of being of practical importance. Damping by excitation control (\"forced\" damping) is compared to damping due to the action of damper windings. The advantages of forced damping are clearly established; particularly in systems where long line lengths exist between large generating units."
"The paper describes a theoretical method of determining the response of an induction watthour meter for steady- state inputs rich in harmonic content. Mathematical derivations obtained are rather complex and are amenable to solution by iterative techniques. Significant practical results can only be obtained by the use of a digital computer."
"Many fast-acting electromechanical devices utilize the repulsion forces produced on a metal disk subjected to a transient magnetic field. Coupled circuit theory yields a simple expression for this force in terms of an equivalent inductance. The equivalent inductance, however, is difficult to evaluate by theoretical and/or experimental methods when the metal disk is very close to the magnet coil. A numerical method for calculating the electromagnetic forces in such devices is described."
"This paper covers the workings and properties of a completely self-contained, solid-state pulse initiating system which uses a Hall generator as its sensing element and a rotating permanent magnet as its signal emitter. Its amplifier utilizes an integrated circuit for signal amplification and a bi-stable mercury wetted relay as its recorder driving device. This system offers a degree or reliability and speed much greater than that of any other existing system."
"The electrical aspects of the underground 1000-MW Northfield Mountain pumped storage station to be installed by Northeast Utilities are covered. Proposed electrical equipment, arrangements, and plant operation are reviewed for this project which is scheduled for completion in early 1972."
"A gas-turbine package power plant was used to provide startup power for a 250-MW steam-generating unit. Performance of the excitation system during startup of large power-station auxiliary motors closely matched that previously calculated by a digital-computer program. Results of the computer study and full- scale verification tests are presented. These results verified that the digital-computer program used accurately simulated the dynamic characteristics of the excitation system, generator, and motor. Based on this verification, it was concluded that further computer studies could be utilized with confidence to predict voltage dips at critical locations in the power system."
"A general description is given of the physical plant and electrical system and a rather detailed description of the automatic controls of the Muddy Run pumped storage hydro plant. Conventional controls are used for generating and spin modes and modifications to these controls are made for the pumping mode. In pump mode operation the generator-motors (G-M) are started as induction motors on half voltage and are transferred to full voltage after synchronizing. The design includes remote automatic operation utilizing conventional supervisory control equipment over microwave channels. A digital computer is used to economically load the eight G-Ms."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The decision to introduce 765 kV on the American Electric Power (AEP) system is related to the general development of EHV transmission in this country and abroad. In 1952 AEP pioneered in developing 345-kV transmission as an overlay to the then existing 138-kV system and is now pioneering in the development of 765-kV transmission as an overlay to both the 345- and 138-kV systems to assure a fully integrated operation. Load growth, reliability, prudent use of land and rights-of-way, and economics of EHV transmission are discussed as related to the decision to construct the 765-kV system."
"The system performance characteristics of 765-kV versus 345-kV transmission are discussed, and the system planning studies, analyses, and considerations that led to the adoption of 765- kV transmission as a new EHV overlay for the American Electric Power system to be superimposed on the existing 345-kV transmission network are described."
"Overvoltages on the American Electric Power 765-kV transmission system and their influence on its design are studied. Overvoltage phenomena are defined and described during the transient, dynamic, and steady-state periods. The effect of these periods on equipment and means for their control are discussed. Examples of data important in arriving at final system design are given. Analytical tools used during the overvoltage studies are discussed and areas requiring further research are listed."
"This paper considers the effects of radio influence (RI) and corona loss in the design of the American Electric Powers' 765-kV lines. Past experience with 345-kV lines and field RI and corona-loss data obtained from the Apple Grove 750-kV test project [1] provided a good basis for establishing a conductor size for satisfactory RI and corona-loss performance at 765-kV. A bundle of four 1.165-inch (29.59-mm) diameter 954-kcmil ACSR conductors were selected for 765-kV lines to provide acceptable fair-weather radio reception at 200 feet (61 meters) from the line in urban or highly populated areas. For this conductor size the average fair- weather corona loss should not exceed 3 kW/mile (1.87 kW/km) three phase, and the mean foul-weather corona loss is expected to be approximately 135 kW/mile (84.3 kW/km) three phase. A special vehicle designed and equipped for 14-kHz to 1000-MHz RI and television influence (TVI) measurements will survey the 765-kV lines, collecting data for verification of performance, and, as necessary, for the correction of any unusual radio or TVI problems."
"The scope and results of a testing program for the insulation design of the American Electric Power 765-kV transmission lines are presented. With a 32-unit V string in the middle phase, and 30-unit V strings in the outer phases (standard 5¾- by 10-inch suspension insulators), the composite switching-surge strength of the tower is characterized by a 3-sigma withstand not less than 1250 kV or 2 pu of system voltage crest."
"The design and testing procedures employed in designing the transmission lines for the American Electric Power 765-kV system are discussed. Design methods and testing for towers, anchors, conductors, insulators, and hardware are described."
"The engineering and design features of the 765-kV substations that will be placed in service in early 1969 on the American Electric Power system are discussed. The electrical and physical details of the stations are reviewed in detail, and major factors in equipment selection are discussed. An analysis of this paper plus the companion papers on 765-kV station insulation coordination and relaying will yield a reasonably complete understanding of the engineering and design thinking which is part of the station designs."
"Specially designed arresters are used in the American Electric Power 765-kV station insulation coordination as a first line of defense against overvoltage. The arresters have the ability to withstand sustained and dynamic overvoltages in excess of their rating. They also have the ability to discharge repetitively. Use of these arresters permitted 1800-kV BIL ratings for transformers, reactors, and circuit breakers. A performance criterion for bus flashover was established in terms of probability. New methods were used to test station insulator withstand and contamination performance."
"The basic relaying philosophy of the American Electric Power 765-kV system is covered. The use of duplicate primary protection, each based on a different operating principle, is explained. Of significance is the unique use of single sideband power-line carrier and transfer tripping. The effect of line oscillations and asymmetry of transmission line impedances is discussed. Included also is a discussion of relay characteristics, ac and dc control power, shielding and overvoltage, and equipment protection."
"Voltage-endurance testing of high-voltage micaceous insulation systems has traditionally been performed at normal power frequency. The test atmosphere has been air. The completion of tests in practical time periods has required the use of high dielectric stresses. Two series of voltage-endurance tests were conducted on micaceous insulation systems. These tests were designed to determine the effect on insulation life of accelerated frequency and of hydrogen atmosphere. The frequency of the test voltage was 412 Hz. From these tests two conclusions are drawn for voltage stress below 150 V/mil: 1) the voltage-endurance life-test rate was accelerated linearly with the increase of the frequency of the test voltage, and 2) the hydrogen atmosphere extended voltage-endurance life by a factor of at least 4."
"The results of experimental work on transmission line insulation contamination being performed at General Electric Project UHV are described. A stable steam fog generation system has been developed for use in simulating natural humidity conditions, and its validity has been proved in natural humidity tests conducted in the project's outdoor test area. It is shown that different types of binders, when combined with salt, produce different critical flashover voltages for the same conductivities of binder and salt in solution. Flashover results are presented for a wide range of operating voltages, for contamination and under concentrations and for insulator lengths."
"A contamination test method is proposed that can be applied in any existing laboratory without adding expensive new facilities or equipment. The method can be applied to almost any piece of apparatus, such as suspension insulators, bushings, lightning arresters, and station equipment."
"The new IEEE air switch temperature limitations define classes of temperature rise and maximum temperatures for various materials used in switch construction. These temperature classifications allow more efficient utilization of switch materials, resulting in benefits to both user and manufacturer. The new temperature limitations have been proposed by IEEE for inclusion in the next revision of USASI Standards C37.30 and C37.34."
"The energization of a large capacitor bank with vacuum interrupters coupled with the simultaneous failure of a load transformer on a radial feeder prompted this study. The study reveals a source of overvoltage accompanied by sudden and severe voltage reversals at the transformer terminals. This phenomenon is characterized by the momentary interruption and subsequent reignitions of the two predominant transient high-natural-frequency oscillatory capacitor closing currents. The momentary interruptions take place at numerous higher natural-frequency current zeros, which occur during the short interval between the prestrike of the arc and the metal-to-metal closure of the contacts and at the first lower natural- frequency current zero, which occurs either during the short interval between the prestrike of the arc and the closing of the metallic contacts, or during the contact separation due to mechanical contact bounce, or both. Analysis is in two parts, field tests and PACE computer analysis. The computer studies duplicate field test results and permit the evaluation of various combinations of overhead and underground circuit parameters and corrective measures."
"There are some results reported in the paper that the discussor (B. Macchiaroli) would like to consider, namely the data of Table VII concerning tests conducted to observe the influence of drying time on flashover voltage on 30-inch station post insulator elements. It is noted that the flashover voltage decreased in excess of 20% from the time the insulator was thoroughly wet to the point where the lowest flashover voltage was observed with the insulator partially dry. The corresponding curves are reproduced. Since the discussor does not know whether, in the interim time, the authors have found the reasons for this apparently unusual behavior, he proposes a possible explanation. In replying the original authors note that Mr. Macchiaroli presents the interesting observation that, in his testing experience, it is necessary to wait some period of time for a saline solution, depending upon the amount of sodium chloride in solution, before the conductivity stabilizes at its highest value. The higher the salt concentration, the greater the length of time required to reach the point of stabilization. The data given in Table VII of the original paper, as plotted in Fig. 1 of this discussion, show a reduction in flashover voltage much greater during drying of the contaminant containing salt, then in the saltfree test. Admittedly, one set of test data is not sufficient for drawing definite conclusions, but this comparison between salt-free and saline contaminant may lend support to the discusser's theory. It may even introduce another ingredient to investigate-not only length of time for stabilization to occur, but also the magnitude of change in conductivity due to the salt content of the contaminant."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the design of a relatively economical, single crystal, frequency synthesizer that generates the required local oscillator frequencies for an AM and FM broadcast receiver. Selection of a station is accomplished by positioning switches to indicate the station's frequency. Fine tuning is not necessary. The receiver will not (for all practical purposes) drift, because the local oscillator frequency is crystal controlled. Low cost medium scale integrated circuits (MSI) are the building block of this synthesizer."
"A novel horizontal deflection +H.V. circuit is hereby described. It exhibits a H.V. impedance of one to two Megohm and horizontal deflection stability of better than 1%. The circuit and its parameters are similar to a B.W. deflection system, therefore simple in its concept and economical."
"For more than a year now many leading European manufacturers have been using the particularly economic voltage tripler circuit in their production receivers instead of the more conventional circuit with high voltage rectifier and shunt regulator tubes. The tripler circuit is described in detail. Also covered are the various aspects governing the design of an associated flyback transformer and high voltage tripler unit. The advantages and disadvantages of selenium/ silicon rectifiers and ceramic/metallized Mylar r capacitors are discussed. The problems involved in selecting suitable encapsulating material are dealt with. Specific characteristics of the deflection circuit with high voltage multiplication are explained. Other possibilities of voltage multiplication employing the doubler or quadrupler are briefly described. Finally details are provided of experience so far accrued in the laboratory, production lines and in the field."
"This paper describes approaches to frequency selection for ultrasonic remote control receivers which allow the elimination of L-C filters. With no L-C filters, all decoding can be done on one monolithic circuit. This circuit can also be used to reduce the effects of random noise interference."
"The parallax or shadow-mask type of tri-color tube was first described in the literature with a line-or grille-type color selection electrode1 but it first saw the light of commercial day in very much like its present form, using an apertured plate2 or mask for color selection. As thus introduced, the tube was distinctly wanting in brightness due principally to the poor electron-transmissivity of the aperture mask and efforts have been made ever since to improve its brightness capability. For the most part, emphasis has been placed on better tube fabricating techniques, which make possible the use of shadow mask structures having a higher electron transparency, and on new phosphor materials which yield brighter pictures in response to electron excitation. Even in its present commercial form, however, the shadow mask tube has not attained the desirable level of brightness, that is to say, sufficient for use in environments of high light ambients such as well lighted retail stores and similar display rooms, porches or rooms of residences that have large window areas and the like. When operated in such locations the shadow mask tube as it has been known heretofore suffers a serious loss in performance; specifically, the picture washes out both in respect of contrast and chroma."
"Five circuit functions required in a television (TV) receiver - namely, the sync separator vertical take off, horizontal oscillator, automatic frequency control (AFC), automatic phase control (APC), and a noise blanking circuit - have been successfully combined in a single monolithic chip. This approach demanded a deviation from accepted discrete design principles and resulted in circuitry requiring only one half as many total components as previously used, while at the same time giving superior performance. Some features, besides the obvious space and power dissipation advantages common to IC technology, include the elimination of a feed-back winding on the fly back transformer for the APC and the elimination of the horizontal hold control. Also deemed important is the complete lack of coils or transformers for the oscillator itself. This work exdmines the individual circuits within the monolithic structure as well as the ancillary components required for functional performance."
"Computers were developed for the primary purpose of solving large scale problems which cannot be simply simulated by analog means, or are related to projects in which design mistakes are intolerable. They were originally applied to problems in the nuclear energy field and to large problems in astrophysics. More recently they have found extensive use in solving repetitive and routine problems which occur in accounting, and presently most large corporations make use of computer equipment designed for this type of problem Computers have been used to a much lesser extent in engineering, mainly because of the difficulty of defining the engineering problems in mathematical terms suitable for routine solution by a computer."
"A monolithic integrated circuit (commonly called an IC) is contained in one silicon chip; this is different from other forms of integrated circuits that are made up of discrete components on a common substrate (i.e. thick-film, thinfilm, hybrids, etc.). An IC amplifier design has an advantage over discrete circuits in utilizing thermal feedback to stabilize the voltage and current quiescent bias conditions. The small physical size of an IC inherently provides close thermal coupling between circuit elements that cannot be matched using discrete transistors and biasing components mounted on a common heatsink. The author describes the General Electric PA246, a monolithic power amplifier designed for consumer and industrial systems requiring up to 5W of audio power output. In a stereo phonograph, tape, or FM system, a pair of PA246s give a stereo output of 10W continuous power (20W peak)."
"The problems in the microminiaturization of frequency selective circuits have shown the lack of adaptability of the presently used superheterodyne system, particularly in the lower frequency band, to the integrated radio receiver. By using phase-lock technique, the incoming signal can be converted to baseband directly, eliminating the need for intermediate frequency tuned circuits. A preliminary study has been made of the feasibility and the practicality of using phase-lock technique in the consumer AM Tadio receiver. A two-channel, phase-locked receiver is discussed in this paper. It is shown that this system offers not only the advantages of microminiaturization, but in many aspects, better performance as well."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In the search for cable designs capable of transmitting larger blocks of power, consideration has been given to replacing oil in the oil/paper cable with liquified gases. This paper reports the evaluation of liquid hydrogen as the substitute for oil. The system is not operated at the superconducting region but at higher temperatures. Not only cellulosic paper but synthetic papers and films were evaluated. The results were very encouraging."
"This paper reviews the chemical aspects of the requirements of a satisfactory transformer insulating oil and reports how hydrogenation techniques have been developed to tailor the properties of oils to fulfill these needs."
"The design considerations for the use of high alumina in spacers for spacer cable are discussed. The spacer configuration is a function of the characteristics of the insulation materials involved-both the spacer and the phase conductor covering. Electrical considerations dictate a minimum of material in the spacer consistent with mechanical requirements. A new equivalent circuit, coupled with a method for comparing the voltage division between a spacer and the phase conductor covering, permitted evaluation of new designs. Flashover tests for the latest spacer design are reported. Surface leakage test results show the relative merits of ceramic and fluorocarbon coatings in reducing leakage due to salt contamination. The tests in which bare phase wires were used are most revealing. A simple design for a contamination testing facility is included."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Techniques have been developed to set uD field problems, governed by Laplace's equation in finite-difference form, on a digital computer and solve them by iterative methods. The development of these techniques is outlined from a simple two-dimensional problem to more complicated three-dimensional axially symmetric problems. Methods are discussed that allow the simulation of open-field problems, the fitting of surfaces, and the particular case of Laplace's equation along the axis of symmetry. These methods and techniques have been incorporated into special routines and functions to form the basis of a digital computer program that is now available for the solution of three-dimensional axially symmetric Laplacian field problems. This program is of a general nature that permits the solution to a range of problems with the minimum of effort required in the preparation of each particular one."
"This collection of references on \"Thermal Aging of Electrical Insulation\" includes those in books, technical standards and guides, and individual articles in periodicals during the time period 1897 to 1968. Most of the sources are from the U.S.A. and Canada; many from Europe, and some from Japan. This bibliography was prepared by the author for his own company's use initially. It has now been made available to the Electrical Insulation Group."
"This Bibliography compiles references to the testing of this product but also composition and application information. Of particular interest is the listing of U.S. Patents on the subject. Included also is an author cross-reference list. The time period covered is from 1939 to 1968 and the references are primarily to U.S. periodicals."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This compilation of technical publications was assembled to assist those persons responsible for imparting some degree of environmental protection to electromagnetic coils made of various insulated conductors. A total of twenty-two reference sources are cited, and are indicated by coded symbols. Essentially all pertinent material appearing in Insulation Magazine from 1955 through 1968 is included. Publications from the remaining twenty-one sources do not include all works appearing in the same years, but are part of a random collection. Papers on the subject of encapsulation and potting were also included, since the topics covered included insulated magnet wire coils in direct contact with a material designed to provide long-term protection."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The moisture conditioning cycle is the most critical factor in the functional evaluation of rotating machinery insulation systems. An analysis is made of some of the humidity problems currently existing, particularly in respect to the use of the now proposed IEEE 117 Test Procedure and the NRL-designed condensation chamber. A time-dependence ratio of surface-to-bulk absorption has been discovered that varies with the degree of thermal aging. This is explored. Cautionary measures are given for use of the condensation chamber with recommendations as to temperature differentials and exposure-time durations needed to ensure stable test conditions."
"Motors are today required to operate in more severe environments than formerly. This paper reports a study of suitable test methods for evaluating the ability of insulation systems to withstand moisture exposure as thermal aging progresses. A new motorette exposure cycle has been recommended to the IEEE Working Group on Sealed Insulation Systems of the Rotating Machinery Committee."
"In the composite insulation system of a magnet-wire coating and a varnish, there is the possibility of harmful reaction between the two at elevated temperatures. Thus, there may be discontinuities in the Arrhenius curves (log of thermal life versus the reciprocal of the absolute temperature). Experimental results are given showing reactions between certain varnishes and certain combinations of polyester/polyamide-imide enamel systems."
"Changes in specific heat with time and temperature have long been used as an indicator of changes of state or of chemical changes. The differential-thermal-analysis (DTA) technique has been used to study both magnet-wire enamel and enamelvarnish systems. Polyimide enamels were studied to try to relate results to degree of cure and thermal life. The problem is complex but may ultimately lead to more meaningful relationships."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A different approach in thermal evaluation of hermetic insulation is presented. A random-wound bifilar coil of enameled wire, with or without varnish, is aged at a series of elevated temperatures while in a refrigerant atmosphere. Dielectric properties are measured repeatedly at each aging temperature and aging rates are calculated. From rate data at various aging temperatures, energies associated with the aging process are determined by the Arrhenius equation."
"This paper gives the results of an experimental study of the dependence of conduction currents in transformer oil on temperature and hydrostatic pressure (10-760 torr) using direct fields up to 680 kV/cm. Results of measurements with degassed oil and oil containing dissolved oxygen suggest that electrons move through the liquid partly as free electrons and partly as negative ions. The dependence of current on pressure under certain experimental conditions is interpreted as indirect evidence for the existence of an ionization process in the liquid bulk at stresses well below breakdown. The view that a gaseous phase is involved in the process provides a consistent explanation of the results."
"The electric breakdown of air and nitrogen was determined in test cell diameters of 2, 4, and 6 inches using electrode systems of a one-inch-diameter brass sphere to 1 4-inch-diameter square-edged brass plane and also using a sharp-pointed tungsten electrode to the same size brass plane. Also, these electrode systems were used in free ambient air with no enclosing cell. The electrode spacings used were from 100 to 2000 mils. Field plots of electric flux and equipotential lines were also made using conducting paper and copper-foil electrodes for these cell diameters and electrode systems."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Many direct-translation reading aids for the blind have been built in the past, employing an auditory output consisting of a combination of tones indicating the black regions in a vertical slice through a letter space, or a tactile output consisting of a raised or vibrating image of the letter shapes. Maximum reading rates obtained by the majority of subjects with these reading aids have been less than 10 correct words per minute, and the cause of this limitation has not been well understood. By analyzing the spatial spectral content of letter patterns, we show here that most of these reading aids have violated the well-known sampling theorem. It is suggested that this may be a significant factor in the observed reading-rate limitation. The design of a reading aid is described based on the conclusions from this analysis of the sampling process, and on recent results from tactile research. With this reading aid a hand-held probe images a vertical section of a letter space onto a 24 × 6 array of photosensors, and the probe is manually moved horizontally across the line of print. The signal from each photosensor controls a tactile stimulator in a corresponding array of 144 stimulators, which are placed on a single finger. In preliminary reading tests with this device, four subjects have all read at rates greater than 10 correct words per minute, and two of the subjects have read at rates greater than 20 correct words per minute."
"A mathematical model of the instrument-monitoring behavior of the human operator is developed. The model is based on the assumption that the operator behaves as an optimal controller and information processor, subject to his inherent physical limitations. The resulting model depends explicitly on the control task and the control actions. Provision is made for the ability to obtain information from the peripheral visual field. There are no restrictions on signal coupling. The specific characteristics of the operator's visual sampling behavior are predicted by solving a nonlinear, deterministic optimization problem. A two-axis compensatory tracking example is investigated, and the results exhibit the general characteristics expected of a human operator performing a similar task."
"Two lumped parameter models of muscle stretch receptors are described quantitatively on the basis of experimental data from crustacean, amphibian, and mammalian muscle spindles. These models have single-efferent (input) and single-afferent (output) innervation. It is shown that these simple mechanical models can account for many of the behavioral characteristics exhibited by muscle spindle, but are inadequate for a complete model. These inadequacies are discussed. The two models are shown to be sufficiently similar in their transient and steady-state responses to be physiologically equivalent from a systems viewpoint."
"A parameter tracking system that directly measures the gain and time-delay parameters of the crossover model of a compensatory control system is discussed. The parameters of the crossover model, as determined by the tracking system, are shown to vary between subjects, with input bandwidth, and with subject practice. The accuracy of-the parameter tracking system is substantiated by cross checking experimental data by spectral analysis."
"The paper describes a special correlation technique. It is shown that a two-state characterization of a random process leads to a simple correlation procedure, called the \"polarity coincidence correlation method.\" The utility of the method in dynamics studies of man-machine systems, its limitations, its assumptions, and, finally, the accuracy due to a finite time of observation are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"To decide whether or not to attempt a given maneuver, an operator must consider the likelihood of his success as well as the costs or values of the possible outcomes. Detecting the future success of a maneuver from the physical circumstances that make it more or less difficult to achieve and from past experience is formally like detecting signals in noise. Two experiments are described, which indicate that the basic decision model and ROC analysis used for signal detection can also be applied to manual control decisions. Results are given comparing the decision performance of operators who execute the maneuvers with the performance of observers who only watch them."
"The kinematics of remote manipulators and human prostheses is analyzed for the purpose of deriving resolved motion rate control. That is, the operator is enabled to call for the desired hand motion directly along axes relevant to the task environment. The approach suggests solutions to problems of coordination, motion under task constraints, and appreciation of forces encountered by the controlled hand."
"The subject of this paper is an adaptive compensator, which has the function of minimizing the compensation required of the human operator in a continuous single-dimensional manual control system. A random input and a compensatory display are assumed. Use of this compensator does not require detailed knowledge of system dynamics since its adaptive action is based solely upon the operator's control actions. A quasi-linear operator model and the parameter-tracking model method of measurement are used to provide the required on-line mathematical description of the operator's control actions. Design of the compensator is based upon past results, which show the human operator to be an adaptive controller who introduces compensation, via his control actions, similar to that which would be chosen by a servo-engineer in minimizing the square of the system error. The compensator's function results from the established fact that an operator can control a system most accurately when the least compensation is required of him. Experimental results demonstrate that the compensator reduces system error while simultaneously simplifying the operator's task. They also establish some of the limitations of the compensation scheme as currently implemented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The extensive research on computer-based medical diagnosis has not had much impact on medical practice because of conflicting results and the apparently high cost of operational systems. The heart of these problems appears to be the unavailability of large amounts of easily retrievable actuarial data needed for the probability estimates about symptom-disease relationships. This paper proposes that computer-based medical diagnosis can become an effective and economically feasible tool through the routine use of appropriately obtained physician probability estimates."
"In order to determine optimum resolution requirements for digital facsimile systems, a legibility study was conducted. The study was designed to measure the quality of output copy as a function of equipment parameters and copy parameters. The experimental equipment permitted systematic variations in horizontal and vertical resolution, scan direction, and simulated transmission noise; the test documents prepared included uppercase and lowercase characters of several sizes. During the course of the overall study, more than 300 subjects read the facsimile output copies; approximately 750 000 responses were accumulated and analyzed. The data are summarized by showing the spatial resolutions required to maintain 97.5 percent legibility for varying character sizes. Measurements were also made on secondary parameters, indicating slight differences in legibility due to scan direction, and a decrease in legibility when type was lowercase rather than uppercase. The decrease in legibility was also measured for a model of channel errors that assumes the use of run-length compression coding. Some of the results of this study can be generalized to other display systems."
"An adaptive model is presented to describe the behavior of the human operator in response to sudden changes in plant dynamics and transient disturbances. The plant simulated for tracking experiments is approximately second-order and has rate and attitude feedback augmentation for increased stability. The failure of the rate sensor and/or the attitude sensor results in a sudden transition in the order and gain of the effective plant dynamics. These failures may be accompanied by hard-over transient conditions in either the rate or attitude sensors. The adaptive model suggested has a variable structure, contains mode switching based on pattern recognition as evidence, and incorporates the decision-control logic required for successful adaptation to failures. The model in effect attempts to mimic the control strategy or algorithm used by a trained operator."
"Although various forms of pilot rating scales have been widely used, they have at the same time been criticized increasingly for supposed deficiencies. Thus, contemporary scale problems include wording ambiguity, the dual mission character of some scales, and a lack of information about the quantitative character of the scale continuum. In an attempt to quantize rating scales, a semantic experiment was conducted that allowed psychological measurement techniques to be applied to scale the wording used in rating scales. The results of the application of the method of successive intervals indicate that contemporary scale data can be averaged directly with little error if a reliable estimate of the mean is available. However, the number of samples necessary to obtain a reliable estimate depends on the rating itself, and increases as the rating becomes worse, so that the design of an experiment would need to depend on the outcome of the same experiment. The problem could be avoided by constructing a scale based on the successive interval scale values, where variability along the scale is constant."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The manufacture of Braille textbooks has, in the past, been accomplished in two ways. The first is the large-scale production, utilizing zinc plate embossing presses. The second is hand production, done by a large number of dedicated volunteers. This paper outlines the trend in the last few years toward automatic Braille production and describes the development of a low-cost Braille translation and embossing system at the Research Laboratory of Electronics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Criteria are given for the generation of input to an automatic system along with techniques for increasing the cost effectiveness of Braille manufacture."
"A model for human controller remnant is postulated in which remnant is considered to arise from an equivalent observation noise vector whose components are linearly independent white noise processes. Extensive analysis of data obtained from simple manual control systems verifies that this model structure holds over a wide range of input amplitudes and bandwidths, vehicle dynamics, and display locations. When the display is viewed foveally, the component noise processes are proportional to the variances of the displayed quantities. This constant of proportionality is independent of input parameters and of vehicle dynamics."
"A pilot model based on Kalman filtering and optimal control is given which, because of its structure, provides for estimation of the plant state variables, the forcing functions, the time delay, and the neuromuscular lag. The inverse filter and control problem is considered where the noise and cost function parameters yield a frequency response which is in close agreement with that found experimentally. A good correspondence with sine-wave tracking is shown including \"eyes closed\" tracking."
"This paper addresses the problem of forming sequential gain and phase estimates needed to permit direct study of time variations in human response. The conventional Fourier transform with \"boxcar\" data window is shown to be unsatisfactory. Gabor's theory of elementary signals is cited to show that Fourier transformation with Gaussian data weighting yields an optimum combination of spectral and time resolution. For this window the estimation procedure is constrained by the fundamental relationship σω . σt = ½ where σω, σt are the standard deviations of weights across the spectral and data windows, respectively. The Gabor (Gaussianweighted Fourier) transform is introduced. Some consequences of implementing this procedure are briefly discussed and empirical results are presented in verification."
"A single-axis rate control tracking experiment was conducted to determine the sensitivity of transinformation (information processing rate in bits/s) to display gain, display type (pursuit or compensatory), and forcing function bandwidth. Four other performance measures were also derived: relative error, relative noiseless error, relative remnant, and system open-loop crossover frequency. It was shown that human information processing rates increased to a maximum and then decreased as a function of both display gain and forcing function bandwidth. In general, little difference in transinformation performance was noted between pursuit and compensatory displays."
"This communication illustrates a simple technique for identifying the pilot/vehicle describing functions from routine flight test records. This technique provides a straightforward method of analyzing and comparing the dynamics of closed-loop attitude control tasks from actual flight test operations. Some results from the Gemini and X-15 flight test records tend to confirm previous findings that the pilot tries to adjust his dynamics such that the combined pilot/vehicle describing function can be described by a simple crossover model."
"In this communication, some observations of the step-tracking situation in normal human subjects are presented. The muscle systems around the ankle joint were studied. The experiments indicate that the predominant control law seems to be a unilateral activation of the appropriate muscle with some lead compensation. The antagonist muscle is simply turned off and not used as an active brake on the action, with one exception as noted in the results."
"A modified fast Fourier transform (FFT) is used in a hybrid computer program to permit processing of tracking data during a run to yield the human operator's describing function almost immediately after the data-taking period. The computer processing time is substantially reduced at no cost in accuracy."
"Study within digital engineering is primarily concerned with the exploitation of mutual characteristics of software and hardware packages. Within the digital information aggregate of each package the alphabet, dictionary, and syntax models permit a basic perspective independent of restraints imposed by particular evolving packages."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An introductory survey is presented of the possible contribution of the human sciences to man-computer interaction, based upon a full review of the relevant human factors literature which is to be published. A possible taxonomy for the field is proposed founided on broad divisions of the human sciences problem areas and of the types of computer systems and services. Using the taxonomy as a framework, some examples of relevant human sciences work and some problems and research needs are discussed."
"This paper claims that the increasing heterogeneity of the community of conmputer users poses a challenge to psychologists and human factors researchers. There follows a brief discussion of why this challenge apparently has not yet evoked a strong response. Three problems, or problem areas, are identified as being particularly in need of human factors research. These are (1) the development and evaluation of conversational languages, (2) the determination of how the use patterns adopted by users depend on system characteristics, and (3) the description, or modelling, of man-computer interaction."
"The history of research on display design is described briefly and the general problems of real/artificial displays and new/stored information are discussed with particular emphasis on compatibility The main discussion centres on the advantages and limitations of the three general approaches to display design: use of checklists, use of formal procedures and use of behaviour theory. A checklist for display design is provided and the other procedures are illustrated by case studies."
"Current training practices in the use of U.S. Naval weapon system trainers (WST) do not reflect some fundamental principles of learning. In the use of such devices for refresher training, fleet personnel seek only to 'practice' behaviours as they would when training at sea under operational conditions. Thus, training is, for the most part, unplanned, unstructured, and the benefits of using the device are less than optimum. A utilization guide for an ASW (anti-submarine warfare) trainer is described, setting forth four principles for effective, tactical team training. (i) Training objectives should be specified across the fuill range of device capability; (ii) each exercise should be structured and controlled with respect to the-objectives; (iii) progression through the training programme should be according to levels of difficulty; (iv) exercise sequencing should be based on measured trainee performance."
"Despite an increasing capability for automating various tasks there continues to be a requirement for man to serve as the decision element in many complex systems. The complexity and far-reaching consequences of many decisions impels a concern for improving decision-making perforrnance in man-machine systems. In this paper current knowledge regarding human decision behaviour and methods for aiding this behaviour are briefly reviewed. A tentative, conceptual model of an idealized process of decision making is presented. This model, which is based on both empirical and theoretical research, contains three phases. These are (1) problem recognition, (2) problem diagnosis, and (3) action selection. The model is intended primarily to provide a guide to system designers in structuring decision tasks and a framework for organizing knowledge about decision-making behaviour."
"Information systems applied to operational environments have meaning only in what they do for humans performing tasks, whether clerical, technical or managerial. Each person's job-position entails interaction with a limited set of categories of variable data. By 'limited' is meant less than several thousand, and more likely several hundred, categories. A category set associated with a collection of tasks performed by an individual or an organization may be called a category domain. This concept makes possible a practicable (in size) data base responsive to support human tasks in human (psychological) time. An analysis of human problem-solving tasks reveals the following gamut: simple inquiry and update, status inquiry, briefing, exception detection, diagnosis, planning/choosing, evaluating/optimizing, constructing (designing), and discovery. There is no compulsive orderinig of these on a complexity scale. The information processing structure of each is exarnined: some common denominators among this set reveal five underlying archetypes of interaction. By making these archetypes explicit and consistent with concepts of domain, application disciplines and system design can move in parallel and generate a simple, well-defined language structure betweefn system and human user."
"Following a brief outline of the characteristic features of the systems approach to training, the information-processing model is identified as a particularly illuminatina appoach to job classification. It is argued that the model highlights the multi-dimensional nature of task difficulty, indicates appropriate training methods, and provides a language for describing any human skill. The problem of deriving a meaningful classification of cognitive skills is discussed, and it is suggested that higher order mental processes can be broken down into four distinguishable stages, each with its own potential sources of difficulty. The implications of the systems approach for selection are then considered, and it is argued that there is a need. for increased flexibility and sophistication in diagnostic testing. Fiinally examples drawn fromi recent studies conducted within the Royal Air Force are adduced to illustrate the kinds of improvemnent in performance which can be achieved through the appllcation of a systemns approach to training."
"The analytical basis of manual vehicular control theory is a combination of feedback systems analysis and mathematical models for human operators engaged in control tasks. Simplified representations for the operator-system combination are provided by the 'crossover model', which is described in detail. The system dynamics and average performance of the crossover model system are developed. With these as bases, case studies are presented to illustrate the types of result which can be obtained from application of the operator-vehicle control theory. Two aircraft control examples illustrate the use of the theory and its empirical correlates to estimate operator dynamic characteristics, system performance, pilot ratings, pilot commentary, design implications, and some experimental guidelines. A driver automobile example is presented to illustrate the use of the theory in structuring the key guidance and control features of the driver's visual field. A comprehensive bibliography of operator-vehicle system analysis applications is also provided."
"Experimental studies and control descriptions of the human operator in recent years have extended the knowledge of adaptive behaviour in manual control from vague generalities about his versatility to quantitative descriptions. Considerable data have been gathered on the ability of the human to adapt to changes in input spectra, controlled element gain, polarity and dynamics, display modality, and the limits of controllability under a variety of situations. These results have indicated a greater adaptation versatility than expected from some earlier descriptions, but have also pointed out some of the restricted training conditions under which the rapid human adaptation may be expected to be demonstrated. When it comes to explaining how the human manages his remarkable adaptation abilities, less progress has been made. Improvements in the techniques for dynamic measurement of the adaptive process have been helpful in this regard but still fall short of what is required to observe the change in control law. Some appealing suggestions for detection models, model reference conitrol analogues and statistical decision theory pattern recognition algorithms have been put forth but are in no sense 'proven'. Primarily as a result of the measurement limitation and the lack of sufficient knowledge about adaptive control systems in general, the development of models for human adaptive control has been limited to general schema at this time."
"Trials comparing equipments should use separate groups of people for each equipment. If the same people work with all the equipments in balanced orders, the results of the trial may be biased by hidden transfer effects. This point is illustrated by two sets of experiments. One set of experiments compared true motion or pursuit displays with relative motion or compensatory displays. True motion displays are always preferable to relative motion displays. Yet three experiments found a relative mnotion display reliably better than a true motion display under certain conditions. These unfortunate results are probably due to the people in the experiments confusing the various optimal phase relationships between control movements and display movements. The second set of experiments compared various orders of control using a true motion display. A position control system is more compatible with a true motion display than is any higher order of control system. Yet one experiment found rate and rate-aided control systems reliably better than a position control system with the lowest frequency track. This result also is probably due to confusion between the various optimal phase relationships."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"During the past decade many different computeroriented techniques for locating the extremum of a mathematically defined n-dimensional surface have been developed for use as aids toward optimum system design. The great majority of these techniques locate only the nearest peak if the surface is multimodal. This paper presents a technique for locating the global extremum of a multimodal surface. The search strategy is divided into three phases: a global search, a selection of hypervolume containing the global extremum, and a final unimodal search. The search strategy is discussed along with an illustrative example problem."
"A stochastic approximation procedure that minimizes a mean-square-error criterion is proposed in this paper. It is applied first to derive an algorithm for recursive estimation of the mean-square-error approximation of the function which relates the input signals and the responses of a memoryless system. The input signals are assumed to be generated at random with an unknown probability density function, and the response is measured with an error which has zero mean and finite variance. A performance index for evaluating the rate of convergence of the algorithm is defined and then the optimal form of the algorithm is derived. It is shown that the least-square-error fit of the measured output signals of the systems offers a recursive formula which is a special case of the proposed algorithm. A recursive formula for estimation of a priori probabilities of the pattern classes using unclassified samples is then presented. The rate of convergence is computed. A minimum square-error estimate of a continuous probability density function is also obtained by the same algorithm."
"A survey of the literature related to man-computer interaction reveals the many aspects of this problem, which appears to be in the crossroads among such diverse fields as computer languages, computer systems operational characteristics, control theory, decision theory, information theory, applied psychology, computer display and interface engineering, etc. In this paper we have chosen to present the on-line interaction from an information and decision point of view. After a brief discussion of classes of on-line situations and tasks, we propose an information-processing model of the case in which a human operator is engaged on-line in the solution of a problem like debugging a program, testing a model in a scientific application, or performing a library search. In this model the human operator is considered to seek to maximize overall cost. This cost is obtained by adding the operational cost of both man and computer to a remnant terminal cost originated by the remaining uncertainty. This analysis, performed for each of a set of possible alternatives for action, may lead the man to select and execute one of them, to terminate the process, or to reevaluate the possible alternatives and/or hypotheses in a search for new ones. Some practical applications in terms of response time and other characteristics of a computer utility are discussed, as well as some theoretical implications from an informational point of view."
"An upper bound for the number of measurements required by the contour tangent optimization technique [1], [3] to give an ϵ approximation to the maximum is determined. The bound is applicable to n-dimensional quasiconcave functions and requires an estimate of the modulus of continuity δ near the maximum. For large even n and domain on the unit interval, the number of contour tangent measurements required is less than 2.18n (𝓃 ln n - ln δ - 0.22). If each contour tangent is approximated by n + 1 explicit measurements of the objective, then an upper bound on the number of function evaluations is n + 1 times the above. The bound derived shows that the contour tangent technique is far superior to dichotomous search [3], the next best direct search elimination technique."
"Efforts are made to simplify the implementation and to improve the flexibility of Bayesian learning systems. Using a truncated series expansion to represent a pattern class, a simplified structure is shown with nearly optimal performance. A criterion of determining the learning sample size is given so that after taking a sufficient number of learning observations, the system may elect to learn by itself without relying on the external supervision. A time-varying random parameter is approximated by the polynomial with random coefficients. The Bayes estimates of the coefficients are obtained sequentially from the useful information in the learning observations. The condition for convergence of the unsupervised learning is established and shown to be closely related to the selection of the characteristic features. The system retains the same structure in both supervised and unsupervised learning processes with either the stationary or the time-varying random parameter."
"An adaptive approach is presented for optimal estimation of a sampled stochastic process with finite-state unknown parameters. It is shown that, for processes with an implicit generalized Markov property, the optimal (conditional mean) state estimates can be formed from 1) a set of optimal estimates based on known parameters, and 2) a set of \"learning\" statistics which are recursively updated. The formulation thus provides a separation technique which simplifies the optimal solution of this class of nonlinear estimation problems. Examples of the separation technique are given for prediction of a non-Gaussian Markov process with unknown parameters and for filtering the state of a Gauss-Markov process with unknown parameters. General results are given on the convergence of optimal estimation systems operating in the presence of unknown parameters. Conditions are given under which a Bayes optimal (conditional mean) adaptive estimation system will converge in performance to an optimal system which is \"told\" the value of unknown parameters."
"The problem considered is that of determining the inverse of a linear time-invariant dynamical system characterized by a first-order vector differential equation. This problem has application to various problems in control and estimation, where a state space representation is utilized. A necessary and sufficient condition is given for the existence of an inverse system and an algorithm is developed for the inverse system when one exists. The inverse algorithm generates a system composed of a differentiation system cascaded with a dynamical system."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop an analytic foundation for the determination of whether a mathematical model and its desired computations are \"well-posed\" in order to help alleviate the software problems associated with the simulation of complex large-scale systems by heterogeneous mathematical models involving several hundred dimensions. The problem is approached by providing a rigorous basis for the commonplace notion of constraint. Four distinct viewpoints of the mathematical model are established: 1) the set theoretic relation space; 2) the family of submodels; 3) the bipartite graph, which provides topological insight; and 4) the constraint matrix. Fundamental definitions of mathematical model consistency, computational allowability, and extrinsic and intrinsic constraint are established on a set theory basis. Correspondences are proved between the topological properties of a model's graph and its constraint properties. Variables located in different connected components of a graph are always mutually consistent, but computations performed on them are never allowable. If a model graph of universal relations has a tree structure, then all its variables are mutually consistent. Detailed treatment of special relation classes will be given in Parts II and III."
"While analyzing situations before making vital decisions has been practiced by realistic politicians since Machiavelli's time, business managers constantly make decisions with inadequate information and under the pressures of insufficient time. Too few managers have reached the point where they rigorously analyze alternate consequences before choosing one solution over another. A prime problem is the different mental attitude of those involved-today's top executives and the more recent management-oriented technical graduates. The potential contributions of management science to the business process are limited by the gap between the mentality of the practitioners of management science and currently successful managers. The challenge of developing certain interactions, mutual trust, and commitment is offered to both sides. Melding of the disparate talents of the charismatic intuitive leader, the management scientist, and the behavioral scientist is needed to help close the \"managementality gap.\""
"An algorithm is presented for determining an approximate solution of a large class of discrete linear programming problems, and an upper bound on the profit loss due to the approximation is computed. A subregion of the original polyhedron of feasible solutions is also defined; such a subregion certainly contains the optimal solution of the discrete linear programming problem considered. A geometrical interpretation of the algorithm is given."
"This paper describes the development of a criterion for the quantization of line-drawing data. The criterion provides a guide for selecting the quantization fineness required to assure that the significant features of given line-drawing data will be preserved in the quantization process. The criterion is based on viewing a line drawing as an elastic beam under flexure and selecting a quantization grid size that is fine enough to permit the line drawing to be represented by a beam of minimum strain energy. In this model, regions of sharp curvature of the line drawing correspond to regions of high strain-energy density of the elastic beam. The smoothest possible curve that can be reconstructed from a quantized representation is the minimum-energy curve that satisfies the constraints of the quantized data."
"A clear distinction is made between two concepts. One concept is called an estimation system and the other an adaptive system. Using these two concepts as building blocks and a Bayes minimum conditional risk approach, it is possible to give meaning to the concept of a network of adaptive estimation systems. Under the framework of the approach, unsupervised estimation (estimation without a teacher) is a classical statistical problem as is supervised estimation. Also, supervised estimation is a degenerate case of estimation and a special case of adapting. In general, adapting without a teacher is impossible."
"Histological and electrical examination of high-speed (myelinated) nerve fibers reveals a coaxial RC cable whose inner conductor has from 40 to 80 percent of the diameter of the outer conductor. If various reasonable engineering approximations are made, it turns out that the latter geometry corresponds to maximum conduction velocity. The model suggests that this was the basis for selection by evolutionary processes. It is shown that the measured velocity of 6 × 106 diameters per second is consistent with a node-to-node transit time of 14.2 μs, unregenerated signal loss of 4.6 dB, and spacing of 85 diameters."
"Widely used methods, such as copy, modify, cut and try, and graphical and mathematical analysis, tend to focus on circuits previously created. Mathematical synthesis of circuits is very limited in application. The synthesis of circuits or large-scale systems can be aided by a methodology called the engineering design process. To obtain the physical reality of an electronic design, so many decisions are needed that data reduction methods are required. Computer programs can simplify decision making by the analysis of interaction matrices. From architecture we get Alexander's HIDECS, and from psychology we get factor analysis programs. Their use and misuse is illustrated by the application of their rationales to the combining of subsystems of a color television receiver."
"Critical cultural changes in Northern Europe and North America are not being alleviated by the traditional value of instrumentalism. Affluence and urbanism intensify sociability in societies inexperienced in it. The resulting need for mass tender loving care may, however, be met, at least for the masses, by extending technology beyond its traditionally rigid mechanical limits. The constraint has now been potentially overcome by such flexible technology as xerography and computerization. Thereby, affectional communications can be synthesized. Eight production systems are schematized. There are now available both behavioral science principles and engineering capabilities for affectional industrialization, termed \"agapurgy\" here."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A recursive Bayes optimal solution is found for the problem of sequential multicategory pattern recognition when unsupervised learning is required. An unknown parameter model is developed which, for the pattern classification problem, allows for 1) both constant and time-varying unknown parameters, 2) partially unknown probability laws of the hypotheses and time-varying parameter sequences, 3) dependence of the observations on past as well as present hypotheses and parameters, and most significantly, 4) sequential dependencies in the observations arising from either (or both) dependency in the pattern or information source (context dependence) or in the observation medium (sequential measurement correlation), these dependencies being up to any finite Markov orders. For finite parameter spaces, the solution which is Bayes optimal (minimum risk) at each step is found and shown to be realizable in recursive form with fixed memory requirements. The asymptotic properties of the optimal solution are studied and conditions established for the solution (in addition to making best use of available data at each step) to converge in performance to operation with knowledge of the (unobservable) constant unknown parameters."
"In a steelworks where both open-hearth and basic-oxygen furnaces are available, there is a genuine problem of allocation of total steel production between the two processes. After briefly explaining the two processes, an attempt is made to develop a linear programming model for obtaining optimum allocation of total steel production between the two processes for production planning purposes. Equations and inequations describing the various technological constraints for the furnaces have been incorporated in the model. A linear cost function is minimized. Procedures for evaluating various technological and cost coefficients (used in the model) have been explained indicating the nature of the difficulties that are encountered in such evaluations under normal operational conditions. The model can also predict the required operation levels of blast furnaces and lime burning plants at different levels of total steel production."
"A technique for on-line steady-state optimizing control is developed for systems subject to disturbance inputs. The parameters of the control algorithm are updated so as to maximize the expected system performance, based on a prediction of the frequency distribution of the disturbance inputs over the next time interval of operation. The statistical parameters of the distribution are assumed to be slowly time-varying and the adaptation procedure includes their updating, based on past observations of the disturbance variables. Some of the advantages and limitations of the technique are demonstrated by application to the control of a simulated stirred-tank reactor."
"The foundations of a \"constraint theory\" whose goal is the systematic analysis of consistency and computability in heterogeneous mathematical models of very high dimension were established in a previous paper [1]. The eventual objective of this theory is to automate the automatic determination of whether a complex mathematical model and its required computations are \"well posed.\" This part concentrates on the topological properties of the bipartite model graph defined in [1] and the application of these properties to the location of intrinsic constraint in large mathematical models composed of \"regular\" relations. In particular, the model graph concepts of connected components, trees, circuits, circuit rank, circuit index, and constraint potential are defined with sufficient precision to allow automatic computation. Regular relations, the most commonly employed for scientific models, are defined and the sources of constraint are identified with the \"basic nodal square,\" a special subgraph embedded within the total model graph. A procedure is then developed which uses the topological properties developed earlier to locate the basic nodal squares within a large complex model graph. The ultimate use of the sources of intrinsic constraint is to check the consistency of the model and the allowability of the computations put to it."
"An expression of Wiener's orthogonal functionals {Fn} for an arbitrary variance parameter is presented along with some of its salient properties. A necessary and sufficient condition for the convergence of the corresponding Wiener series is given. Introduction of the variance parameter enables us to discuss some interesting algebraic properties of Wiener's canonical networks also. It is shown that they form a Boolean algebra, each element of which represents a whole family of Wiener's canonical networks for a fixed variance parameter. Applicability of the Wiener theory to time-variable systems and to non-Gaussian processes is briefly discussed."
"The collective behavior of finite state stochastic automata is considered, which is of interest in view of the possibility of modeling group behavior of subjects in terms of these automata. The natural language for considering the collective behavior is that of game theory. After a brief introduction to a class of deterministic automata, the stochastic automaton is formulated and a nonlinear reinforcement specified. The finite state stochastic automaton is first considered in a game with nature, and conditions under which the automaton's winnings reach the Von Neumann value of the game are established. Next, two stochastic automata with an arbitrary number of states for each are considered in a game, the game matrix being specified. Performance of the automata for various conditions on the elements of the game matrix is considered. In a comparison of performance with deterministic automata, it is established that, for performance comparable to that of the finite state stochastic automaton, the deterministic automaton needs an infinite number of states. Finally, some games are simulated on a computer which verifies the general analysis and further sheds light on the details of the game."
"The problem of detecting a sudden change or calamity in the normal operation of a control system is investigated for the case of a deterministic system with measurements corrupted by unknown stationary noise. The basic technique concerns the use of nonparametric two-sample tests. As a consequence, the system under observation does not need to be known in detail; all that is required is a set of observations corresponding to the normal operation of the system."
"A study of the structure and form of systems engineering using the technique of morphological analysis is presented. The result is a model of the field of systems engineering that may be rich in applications. Three uses given for illustration are in taxonomy, discovery of new sets of activities, and systems science curriculum design."
"The concept of \"hypercorrelation\" is introduced as a method for the statistical characterization of systems. It is shown that there exists a minimal set of hypercorrelation coefficients which uniquely characterizes a system for a given transfer function. The method of hypercorrelation is applied to management models and it is shown that certain useful economic conclusions can be drawn from the analysis. Also, a brief mention is made of its application to the characterization of simple multiport systems."
"A sequential algorithm for designing piecewise linear classification functions without a priori knowledge of pattern class distributions is described. The algorithm combines adaptive error correcting linear classifier design procedures and clustering techniques under control of a performance criterion. The classification function structure is constrained to minimize design calculations and increase recognition through-put for many classification problems. Examples from the literature are used to evaluate this approach relative to other classification algorithms."
"A technique called neighborhood storage has been developed previously to store and regenerate extensive lists of sequential steps of a decision process such as all the shortest routes in a transportation system. The original formulation can reduce the required storage by more than an order of magnitude over classical techniques. The purpose of this correspondence is to provide a more efficient technique through a modification of the means of selecting feasible intermediate vertices. The revisions for the more efficient storage technique are presented along with comparisons in terms of the original formulation as well as a classical technique."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Five different but interrelated models of learning have been established within a complex computer program. These models incorporate mechanisms that optimize response patterns on algorithmic and heuristic bases; make abstractions at different levels; produce value judgements; recognize, modify, store, and retrieve geometrical patterns; and exhibit, in general, many aspects of intelligent behavior. Both the teacher and the learner are simulated in the machine. In one model, the program follows a qualitatively new kind of learning process in generating its own strategy and improving it on the basis of experience. The method enables the learner to exceed the playing quality of the teacher. It is suggested that the methods and techniques employed in the project may be useful in mechanizing some problem-solving activities that can be reduced to pattern recognition, such as meteorological forecasting, medical diagnosis, traffic control, and so on. No deliberate attempt has been made to imitate humans."
"Some additional features of an adaptive, multicategory pattern classification system are presented. No a priori knowledge of the class probability densities or a priori probabilities of occurrence of the categories is required. The system utilizes a set of functions selected by the user to form discriminant functions. Adaptation of the system is accomplished using a set of independent pattern samples of known classification in such a manner that the system discriminant functions form minimum mean-square approximations to the Bayes discriminant functions as the number of samples of known classification increases. The convergence rate of the system is examined, and conditions are established under which the expected loss due to misclassification by the system is asymptotically equivalent to the minimum loss achievable when using the Bayes discriminant functions. In addition, a simulation of the system for a three-category problem is presented to demonstrate system performance for a finite number of adaptions."
"Parts I and II of this three-part paper provided the fundamental concepts underlying constraint theory whose goal is the systematic determination of whether a mathematical model and its computations are well posed. In addition to deriving results for the general relation, special relations defined as universal and regular were treated. This concluding part treats two more special relations: inequality and discrete. Employing the axiom of transitivity for inequalities, results relating to the consistency of a mathematical model of inequalities in terms of its model graph are derived. Rules for the simultaneous propagation of four types of constraint, over, point, interval, and slack, through a heterogeneous model graph are established. In contrast to other relation types, discrete relations point constrain every relevant variable, so that finding intrinsic constraint sources is trivial. A general procedure is provided to determine the allowability of requested computations on a discrete model."
"The feasibility of using simulation techniques in community health planning by investigating problems associated with the development of a community health service system simulation model is examined. Two preliminary tasks were completed: a general systems analysis of the community health services and the preparation of a simulation model of one segment of this system. The system is described in terms of needs, demands, and resources. Various factors determine extent of the needs, conversion of the needs into demands, and availability of resources for satisfying the demands. This conceptual framework, the various factors, their significance, and an estimate of the extent of their control by a health planner were derived. A simulation model was developed using this framework and was based on a maternal and infant care program conducted by the North Carolina State Board of Health. The model was verified using data from three different communities within the program. Model processes are described; outputs are discussed; and potential model uses within a planning environment are presented."
"The optimum allocation of a fixed stock of unreliable units to a random number of demands is discussed. The demands occur at Poisson times; several types of criteria are described, but the most important optimum presented is of the probability that at least one allotted unit does not fail at every Poisson demand. Hence this concerns how unreliable elements can best be used to create a reliable system. The allocation problem arose in a military system analysis context. The results presented exemplify how system science concepts (Poisson models, recursive computation, and cost/ benefit comparisons) and current computing tools can be applied to practical problems."
"Based on the concept of fuzzy sets defined by Zadeh, a class of fuzzy automata is formulated similar to Mealy's formulation of finite automata. A fuzzy automaton behaves in a deterministic fashion. However, it has many properties similar to that of stochastic automata. Its application as a model of learning systems is discussed. A nonsupervised learning scheme in automatic control and pattern recognition is proposed with computer simulation results presented. An advantage of employing fuzzy automaton as a learning model is its simplicity in design and computation."
"The evolution of large and sophisticated systems has created a requirement for extensive system tests programs. The argument that the change in scale of testing affects organizational communications so as to decrease the visibility provided by traditional management tools is presented. To attack this problem, a recommendation is made to establish a central test evaluation group with the primary goal of feeding back intelligence from the test program to the designers and managers. The concept of test \"intelligence\" is defined and a typical activity flow for the evaluation group is described. The general factors which determine the value of information are related to the specific variables of a test program. A rationale is developed for planning an evaluation approach based on the tradeoff between time invested in evaluation and the change in the value of the evaluation product (intelligence) as it ages. A functional approach to the reporting scheme is given. Report contents and timing are keyed to the program decision requirements. The potential benefits of a central, independent, and objective test evaluation are suggested for the designer, the manager, and the customer."
"System performance tests have recently been carried out on an experimental electrochemically active/plastic system designed to demonstrate and begin to explore the theoretically predicted phenomenon we call temporally associative \"field-trainability,\" a process which, when perfected and extended, may lead to revolutionary advances in manufacturing ultrahigh-density and highly versatile pattern recognition machines. The first complete experimental system, called-linear field-trainable, (LIFT) consists of two matching but opposing (excitatory/inhibitory) parallel arrays of active/plastic dipoles (iron/gold) in nitric acid, which are stimulated (electrically) in various patterns of activity. and respond by simple parallel coupling through the surrounding fluids and steel container walls to a low-impedance low-pass threshold detector. Alternatively, when desired, the chambers are connected to a power supply, the effect of which is to deliver massive electrical shocks to the entire array at once. The resulting reinforcement field is applied in synchronism with sample input pattern stimulations (which alternate with unreinforced response test stimulations) in attempts to induce at will, in a sequence of small steps, simultaneous changes of fine cellular structure which will produce corresponding specific systemic functional mutations as desired from among the class of linear decision functions."
"The problem of learning in nonstationary environment is formulated as that of estimating time-varying parameters of a probability distribution which characterizes the process under study. Dynamic stochastic approximation algorithms are proposed to estimate the unknown time-varying parameters in a recursive fashion. Both supervised and nonsupervised learning schemes are discussed and their convergence properties are investigated. An accelerated scheme for the possible improvement of the dynamic algorithm is given. Numerical examples and an application of the proposed algorithm to a problem in weather forecasting are presented."
"A pattern recognition network with two types of adaptation has been investigated. The network output is a weighted sum of the outputs of elements which compute real functions of the discrete network inputs. The first type of adaptation involves the adjustment of the weights while the second type involves the periodic replacement of the least valuable network elements with new ones. The expected error of the network in realizing arbitrary input-output functions has been found by Monte-Carlo simulation for simple weight adaptation and for the case where the population of network elements is allowed to evolve. Three heuristics for determining which elements are to be replaced in each generation have been evaluated and compared. These were based on the size of the weight associated with each element after training, a normalized weight size, and the cross correlation between the elemental function and the desired network function. All three selection criteria resulted in improvements of the network performance over the nonevolutionary case. The normalized weight size criterion was most effective while the cross-correlation criterion was least effective."
"This correspondence relates to the remark in a recent paper by D.G. Luenberger [ibid., vol. SSC-4, pp. 182-188, July 1968] that any norm defined on a vector space is a real convex function. Although this is a well-known fact in mathematics, a less well-known fact is that every logarithmically convex function is positive and convex, but not conversely, i.e., there are positive convex functions which are not logarithmically convex. As the above title indicates, norms are such functions. This mathematical remark relates to systems science through several areas of application where logarithmic convexity is a highly useful property. In particular, Klinger and Mangasarian [\"Logarithmic convexity and geometric programming,\" J. Math. Anal. and Appl., vol. 24, pp. 388-408, November 1968] mention optimization of multiplicative criteria, reliability theory, and electrical network synthesis, and examine geometric programming in detail."
"Optimal control theory concepts are thought to be useful in understanding the problem of determining safe deceleration characteristics for a crashing vehicle. These deceleration waveforms are to be computed such that passenger belt forces are minimized. Using both a linear one-degree-of-freedom model and a nonlinear two-degree-of-freedom model for a frontal collision, this problem is shown to be equivalent to the minimization of a performance or cost function when the terminal time is not fixed a priori, but is determined by terminal constraints. While the maximum principle is applied directly to find the optimal deceleration waveform for the linear problem, the steepest ascent method is used to optimize iteratively the nonlinear problem. Passenger seatbelt forces which resulted from using these optimal waveforms were compared with those forces which resulted from using step and ramp functions. Results showed that the seat belt forces resulting from the optimally derived deceleration signals were considerably smaller than those using step and ramp functions. With further effort, these results could possibly be used as design guides."
"Transportation planning strategy is discussed in its relationship to overall regional development policy in the Northeast Corridor. A tactic currently being applied in the Northeast Corridor Transportation Project to generate alternative transportation system descriptions is presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In many mathematical and engineering problems the solution is simpler after a transformation has been applied. A general method is proposed to find suitable transformations for discrete data in information processing problems. The main feature of the method is random perturbation of the data subject to constraints which ensure that, in the transformed space, the problem is in some sense simpler and that the local structure of the data is preserved. An application of this technique to pattern recognition is discussed where a transformation is found for the feature space such that classes, which are not linearly separable in the original space, become so in the transformed space. The transformation considerably simplifies the problem and allows well-developed linear discriminant techniques to be applied. This application was implemented and tested with a number of examples which are described."
"The objects and methods of automatic feature extraction on binary patterns are briefly reviewed. An intuitive interpretation for geometric features is suggested whereby such a feature is conceived of as a cluster of component vectors in pattern space. A modified version of the Isodata or K-means clustering algorithm is applied to a set of patterns originally proposed by Block, Nilsson, and Duda, and to another artificial alphabet. Results are given in terms of a figure-of-merit which measures the deviation between the original patterns and the patterns reconstructed from the automatically derived feature set."
"An automated sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) analyzer has been designed and tested in an effort to eliminate tedious and variable human interpretation of experimental EEG data. Data is presented to a hybrid computer from EEG tapes recorded during experimental studies in a human sleep laboratory. Special analog filters are used to identify specific transient waveforms in the EEG. Bandpass filters are used to detect the rhythmical waveforms. The outputs of these filters are then processed by digital logic circuitry, whose algorithms emulate the rules used by human readers quantitating the level of sleep each minute according to the EEG pattem. Preliminary results give 89-percent correlation with a minute-by-minute comparison to the human evaluation of the same test EEG."
"Functional testing of operating systems is in transition from a predominantly imprecise art to an increasingly precise science. The process that controls this testing is maturing correspondingly. The laissez-faire approach is giving way to a disciplined approach characterized by rigorous definition of the test plan, systematic control of the test effort, and objective quantitative measurement of the test coverage. This paper describes just such a disciplined test control process, which is composed of five steps: 1) the survey, which establishes the intended extent of testing; 2) the identification, which creates a list of functional variations eligible for testing; 3) the appraisal, which ranks and subsets the eligible variations so that test resources can be directed at those with the higher payoff; 4) the review, which calculates the test coverage of the test case library; and 5) the monitor, which verifies attainment of the planned test coverage. Throughout the test process, specification testing is distinguished from program testing."
"Experimental data relating ciliary nerve stimulation and lens motion are used to identify the open-loop plant dynamics of the lens accommodation system via a parameter identication variation of the Kalman filter equations. Using the resultant minimum variance plant model, experimental closed-loop responses of the human accommodative system are predicted by synthesizing the system closed-loop controller. The resultant control signals are shown to minimize the time required to change the refractive state of the eye. The plant dynamic model and the closed-loop model are further verified by comparing their frequency responses to experimental data. The optimal performance of the lens system is compared to analogous performance of another ocular control system, and a possible general theory of optimal control is discussed."
"A survey of current trends of systems engineering in the glass industry is presented. The central theme is that systems engineering is the technique through which the process of our time-the information revolution exemplified by the digital computer-is exerting its impact on the industry. Systems engineering is examined and basic concepts reviewed, and the production system is defined as a pyramidal, hierarchical structure. Process models which have been developed primarily for control purposes are reviewed; examples of theoretically or experimentally developed models are given. In computer control applications, a major trend is seen toward extensive integrated real-time information-processing systems consisting of several computers connected through a communication network. The development of the human components in the production system, particularly management structure, is considered as an essential aspect of the overall system development."
"A method has been developed to analyze systems which have threshold properties. The only information about the system response that is used in the analysis is whether or not this response exceeds a fixed threshold of unknown magnitude. There are many biological systems that fall into this category of systems, for example, the auditory system, the visual system, electrical stimulation of nerve cells, etc. However, any network to which an arbitrary amplitude has been assigned and which the response has to exceed as an artificial threshold could be analyzed with the methods outlined in this paper. The cases of a simple linear system and first- and second-order photochemical reactions are discussed extensively. It is shown that due to the limited output information available, often no unique system characterization is possible. However, the method can be a powerful aid in the selection between various alternatives. The influence of possible nonlinear operators in the system has been analyzed, and the result turns out to be very dependent upon the location and character of these operators. Some classic vision-research experiments are discussed as examples to illustrate the application of the analysis put forward in this paper."
"A new type of visual feature extracting network has been synthesized, and the response of the network has been simulated on a digital computer. This research has been done as a first step towards the realization of a recognizer of handwritten characters. The design of the network was suggested by biological systems, especially, the visual systems of cat and monkey. The network is composed of analog threshold elements connected in layers. Each analog threshold element receives inputs from a large number of elements in the neighbouring layers and performs its own special functions. It takes care of one restricted part of the photoreceptor layer, on which an input pattem is presented, and it responds to one particular feature of the input pattem, such as brightness contrast, a dot in the pattern, a line segment of a particular orientation, or an end of the line. This means that the network performs parallel processing of the information. With the propagation of the information through the layered network, the input pattern is successively decomposed into dots, groups of line segments of the same orientation, and the ends of these line segments."
"Several fundamental relations between regulation and informational quantities are given. These show that regulation is a phenomenon closely tied to the transinformation between the regulator and the system which might be called its opponent. Two basic types of regulators are distinguished. The first, error-controlled regulators, are shown to be essentially coding devices which operate by taking advantage of constraints in the input sequence. The second, cause-controlled regulators, are shown to be free of some limitations inherent in error-controlled regulators. The importance of the regulator's channel capacity in cause-controlled regulation is established."
"A decision algorithm which simulates the rapid adaptive behavior of human controllers following sudden changes in plant dynamics is developed. The control of a VTOL aircraft in hover following failure of the stability augmentation system is used as a specific example. The decision algorithm is based on the assumption that the human controller recognizes certain pattern features in the error/error-rate phase plane. Experimental data, obtained from pilots facing four possible alternatives following the time of failure, are presented. The proposed decision algorithm is developed, and digital simulation results are discussed. A theoretical justification for the algorithm, based on statistical decision theory, is presented in the Appendix."
"The application of stochastic automata to adaptive parameter optimization problems is considered. The fundamental problem is that of relating the concepts of automata theory and mathematical psychology learning theory to the usual notion of a performance index in a control system. Consideration is given to a number of possible automata structures, linear and nonlinear. One particular linear model is derived with optimal rather than expedient properties of convergence. A basic feature of this model is that it is based on a system response set of rewards and inactions, the latter being substituted for the more common penalty responses. This choice of response set is directly related to the achievement of the desired behavior. Simulations are described for the maximization of multimodal performance functions intentionally constructed to demonstrate the use of the method in situations where relative extrema occur. An example is also given of the automaton as a direct adaptive controller for a third order control system."
"The asymptotic model of traffic dynamics presented is simple to employ and yields solutions that can be interpreted in terms of a continuous flow process. Although the asymptotic model is an approximation and has not been fully developed, the results that are now available are of such significance that one must question the feasibility of the determination of parameters for the various models by data collected on the open road. All linear models, regardless of complexity, will yield solutions that approach this asymptotic representation, and this model has only two constants. Whatever the ultimate significance of this asymptotic model, the simplicity of its use as a tool in the study of traffic dynamics justifies the further development of this approach."
"Results on a practical method for exploiting weakness in the play of an opponent in two-person zero-sum games are reported. Finite-state machines obtained by an evolutionary process are used to determine the move against a nonminimax opponent and achieve average payoffs significantly better than the value of the game."
"This correspondenice attempts to point out the invalidity of a convergesnce property asserted by R.W. McLaren (ibid., vol. SSC-2, pp. 109-114, December 1966) for a stochastic automaton model for learning systems. The error results from ani erronieous derivation of eq. (18) from eq. (17)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper extends the existing knowledge of statistical gain characteristics of radar antennas to include very short Fresnel zone ranges. The data indicate that the median gain and the standard deviation remain essentially the same as those observed in the Fraunhofer zone until the range begins to approach the physical dimensions of the antenna; however, as the range is decreased closer toward physical contact, the median gain decreases and the standard deviation increases. The site-effects tests which were conducted in the Fresnel zone indicate that the geometrical configuration of an object, the position of an object, and the clear-site median gain of an antenna help to determine the magnitude of the effects of objects on the clear-site statistical gain characteristics."
"Signal parameters which will result in satisfactory levels of interference can be obtained directly from the graphs included in this paper. These graphs may be used to determine permissible waveforms for pulses, step functions, and CW signals for compliance with broad-band radiated, narrow-band radiated, and conducted interference limits. Curves are included for MIL-I-26600, MIL-I-6181D, MIL-I-11748, and MIL-STD-826. The curves are extremely simple for designers to use in determining shielding and suppression requirements. They may also be incorporated into the interference control plan to indicate to the customer that adequate interference control techniques will be incorporated."
"The measurement of bonding impedance has been typically limited to dc or to relatively low (<20 MHz) frequencies. However, the impedance characteristics of the bonding system should not be simply ignored at higher frequencies. To do so may be neglecting a serious source of electromagnetic interference. This paper presents techniques for the measurement and interpretation of bonding impedance characteristics through the VHF region. A measuring device based on the insertion loss technique is described. Calibration curves of typical models of this device show its usefulness for measurements up to 400 MHz. The application of this device to the measurement of bonding systems in field installations is also explored. From data obtained with the insertion loss device, an equivalent circuit of a typical bonding system is developed which incorporates the contributions of the equipment case as well as those contributions of the bonding straps to the overall impedance characteristics. It is shown that typical bonding systems exhibit regions of parallel resonance which are often at relatively low frequencies. Within these regions, the impedance of the bonding path is often very high. Because of this high impedance, the equipment case can act as a very effective antenna. Evidence is presented to show that the case voltages induced by a radiated field in the resonant frequency region may increase as much as 25 dB for a bonded system over a system that is not bonded."
"A technique is presented for the reliable prediction of spurious response and intermodulation interference characteristics for microwave receivers of the cavity-crystal type. Calculation procedures, data collection, and simplification measures are given. The results of a test prediction using a typical microwave communication receiver are presented."
"The technique presented here consists of superposing three constant amplitude current excitations on a uniformly spaced array. The first one has constant phase and the other two have equal progressive phase but of opposite signs. The amplitude as well as the progressive phase are chosen in such a way that a high degree of sidelobe reduction is achieved. Results are comparable to those of Chebyshev arrays with the advantage that the current distribution is much simpler to compute. Because of this simplicity the designer can much more easily guess what corrections to introduce in the array excitation in case the measured patterns do not agree with the computed ones."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The current distribution along and scattering cross section of a missile with plume (ionized trail) is found, using numerical techniques when the conductivity of the plume tapers with increasing distance from the exhaust nozzles. In the theory no restrictions are imposed on the length of either the missile or plume, and the variation of conductivity along the entire scattering obstacle may be arbitrary. A model of cylindrical geometry is assumed. Curves for the current distribution along the missile and its ionized trial are presented for several missile and plume lengths at selected frequencies. A table is provided for the scattering cross sections."
"The problem of the electromagnetic shielding effectiveness of an electrically thin, nonmagnetic, plane metal sheet of infinite extent on the electromagnetic field generated by a circular loop field source with uniform current I is solved by application of the quasi-near field approximations to the exact integral expressions. The results are shown to be in excellent agreement with experimental data as well as numerical integration results."
"Relay and solenoid controlled devices have historically been a common source of electromagnetic interference. The pulsed electrical energy resulting from actuation and deactuation generates broad frequency spectrum interference. Establishment of meaningful component and subsystem specifications and application of proper design techniques can minimize the interference generated by such devices and subsystems and can also minimize their susceptibility to other interference sources. This paper reviews the approaches which will significantly minimize electromagnetic interference problems."
"The shielding effect of a thin (or thick) film ground plane on two film conductors has been theoretically investigated by viewing the problem as that of determining the scattering matrix coefficients of a microstrip directional coupler in terms of various transmission-line parameters. The effect of resistive losses in the film conductors and ground plane are considered and methods of systematically determining all transmission parameters have been evolved. Recently published equations for the design of coupled microstrips are used to determine pertinent transmission-line parameters. These results can serve as a guide to designers of thin-film integrated circuits, wherein undesired coupling levels can be predicted and optimum circuit layouts can be determined."
"Evaluation and consolidation have been performed on HF and VHF man-made incidental radio noise data obtained from journal publications and corporate reports released during the past seventeen years by several investigators. This summary represents an extention to 20 MHz of a compilation and analysis of metropolitan area incidental radio noise data initially begun for the 200- to 500-MHz range. The data sources included in the present summary represent the noise environments of metropolitan areas located in Australia, Asia, Europe, and North, Central, and South America. The noise regions, Urban, Suburban I, and Suburban II, previously identified for the 200- to 500-MHz frequency range and representing concentric zones in urbanized areas have been found appropriate for classifying the HF/VHF noise data. Prior to graphically consolidating the information, all data were converted into units of noise power in dB relative to one mW/kHz of receiver bandwidth. To the consolidated data of each noise region has been fitted a power series representation. It has been found necessary, because of differences in magnitude, to segregate the noise region data into two group: one set recorded with quasi-peak field intensity meters, and the other obtained with detectors calibrated to measure available power."
"The computation of VHF band incidental radio noise levels over the centers of several cities, based upon measured surface noise data, is performed and the results compared with airborne data at several frequencies, altitudes, and urban locations. The functional dependence of airborne incidental noise upon detector altitude is computed and compared with available VHF measurements. Comparison is also made between man-made surface noise power density obtained from both airborne and surface measurements. Finally, the use of airborne measurements for determining surface incidental noise distributions in urban areas is noted and discussed."
"This paper describes the measured properties of the electromagnetic radiation from gap-type electrical discharges which occur on distribution lines and discusses some of the factors which affect these emissions. A discussion is given of the methods by which these waves are generated, of the measurement techniques, and the findings of this investigation."
"Many communication receivers receive the desired signal in presence of interference signal. A statistical antenna and propagation model is described which predicts the expected values of the desired and undesired signal levels Ŝ and Î, respectively, the standard deviations of the desired and undesired signals σs and σI, respectively, and their correlation coefficients PSI. The expected values of the signal levels are expressed in terms of the random parameters of the radio frequency power fed into the transmitting antenna, its efficiency, gain, propagation path loss, receiving antenna gain, receiving antenna loss, and input impedance of the receiver."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Relative received voltage versus antenna height above ground is a function of field intensity height gain and the height dependent antenna effective length and impedance. The results of an empirical investigation of relative received voltage versus antenna height using typical EMI antennas in the frequency range 2.5 MHz to 1 GHz are presented. In a theoretical analysis field and antenna effects are separated. Field intensity height gains for both horizontal and vertical polarizations and the effective length and impedance of applicable antenna models are given."
"Uniquely nonohmic properties have been revealed to exist in the materials involved in some recent electrostatic problems on space programs. It is suspected that nonohmic properties may also be involved in electrostatic problems with computers and hightemperature hydraulic systems and petroleum refinery operations. The data which revealed that the conductivity of certain insulating materials decreases with increasing electrical fields is reported along with a description of the experimental techniques. The significance of the nonohmic phenomena in predicting electrostatic compatibility and electrostatic safety is that the accumulated voltage and the energy available for discharge will be computed to be far less than the value which actually will exist whenever nonohmic materials are involved. The failure to take account of the nonohmic property can readily lead to predictions that conditions are safe when, in fact, the conditions are dangerous."
"A technique for predicting conducted interference on input power lines of ac to dc power supplies with diode rectification and smoothing capacitors is presented. Derivation and curves are presented which define the amplitude and conduction angle of the diode current for single- and three-phase supplies. The envelope of the Fourier spectrum of this waveform is then estimated. An example is given which illustrates the use of the curves and the accuracy of the prediction."
"The Weiner-Khintchine relation is used to calculate the power density spectrum of impulsive cross-product noise in the no-frequency-conversion receiver."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A study was performed to predict the average level of spectral amplitude distribution of sferics over the frequency range from 1 kHz to 10 GHz. The effort includes the compilation and analysis of available sferic measurements. Since no reliable data were available in the literature for frequencies above 1 GHz, a theoretical analysis of lightning streamers was conducted to predict the spectral distribution up to 10 GHz."
"The principal factors limiting dynamic range in microwave frequency mixers are reviewed, and recently developed methods of extending the dynamic range are summarized. The principles are shown to be applicable to a wide variety of nonlinear elements at all frequency ranges up to and including the microwave range. Specially developed equipment for measuring mixer performace is described, and typical experimental results given. The significance of the suggested techniques to communications and video systems is demonstrated."
"A numerical solution is presented for determining the shielding properties of a thin sheet of saturable ferromagnetic material of infinite surface area. Several examples are given to indicate the behavior of ferromagnetic shields in an intense electromagnetic environment. These examples illustrate that only a few numerical results are required to determine the electric field transmitted through the material for a given incident pulse of any amplitude."
"A terminated two-wire transmission line is buried at constant depth near the earth-air interface with one conductor directly below the other. A plane-wave electromagnetic field, generated in free space, impinges upon the boundary where it undergoes partial reflection and transmission. The field transmitted into the earth excites the transmission line. The polarization of the electric field is chosen such that the field is directed parallel to the line conductors. The interaction of the line with the dispersive medium and the line losses are considered. The objective of the study is to determine the current in specified load impedances in terms of the amplitude of the incident electric field evaluated at the surface of the earth."
"The analysis previously made to determine the response of a two-wire transmission line buried at constant depth near the earth-air interface when excited by a plane-wave electromagnetic field generated in free space is extended to include the case of the line suspended in air at a uniform distance above the earth's surface. The exciting field is the vector sum of the incident and reflected fields at the point midway between the line conductors. The polarization of the electric field is taken to be parallel to the wires, so that there is no pick up by the terminations. The objective of the study is to determine bounds for the current in specified load impedances in terms of the amplitude of the incident electric field evaluated at the surface of the earth."
"A model for electric field propagation above planeearth in the region from 1 meter to 10 km from the source, specifically tailored to permit rapid quantitative solutions of EMI (electromagnetic interference) propagation problems, is obtained from classical ground-wave propagation theory extended to include induction fields. The solution is presented in the form of attenuation and height-gain curves for both vertical and horizontal polarizations and covers the spectrum from dc to 1 GHz. The quantitative effects of soil conditions are investigated by comparing propagation over good earth with propagation over the extremes of dry sand and sea water."
"On the basis of an expression given by Buchholz for the magnetic-vector potential for an infinitely long twisted-wire pair, the expressions for the external component-flux densities in cylindrical coordinates have been developed. These expressions checked very well with data obtained in the proximity of precisionwound twisted-wire pairs. A generalized graph for various radii and pitch lengths has been developed to enable the design engineer to quickly predict the strength of the magnetic field for all three spacial components at distances in the proximity of a twisted-wire pair."
"In the above paper [ibid., vol. EMIC-11, pp. 104-111, Aug 1969] the caption of Fig. 6 should have read as follows: \"Fig. 6. LP spiral anteinna; source height 1 meter, distanices 61 meters. MIeasured received voltage versus antenna height, transverse plane polarization 200 to 1050 MHz.\""
"A new approach to the prediction of error rates in digital data transmission systems when the dominant source of errors is given by noise bursts, each having a flat spectrum across the band of interest, is described. Specifically, a hierarchy of phase-averaged conditional error probabilities called kth receiver impulse characteristics (RIC) are defined, which depend only on the receiver's structure. Error probabilities are then computed by averaging the RICs over the statistics of the impulsive noise which is characterized at the RF input of the receiver. To illustrate the approach in a practical, interesting situation, a detailed analysis is carried out for a phase-shift-keyed system employing either a linear or a hard-limiting receiver, and for impulse rates small enough that errors are essentially caused by single impulses."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Surveyor Program of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration successfully soft-landed five spacecraft on the surface of the Moon between June 2, 1966, and January 10, 1968. Three scientific instruments were developed specifically for this program and were carried by one or more spacecraft to the lunar surface. A 600-line television camera was used on all five spacecraft and returned nearly 90 000 pictures from the Moon. An alpha-scattering instrument, devised for this program, was successfully operated on the lunar surface to give the first elemental analysis of the lunar top soil. This instrument was carried on three spacecraft and made an analysis of six lunar samples. A surface sampler was also mounted on two of the spacecraft and was used to manipulate the Moon's surface, allowing the first estimate to be made of the mechanical properties of the top few inches of lunar surface. After a brief description of the Surveyor Program, this paper describes each of the three instruments and assesses their capabilities. An outline of their operation on the lunar surface is given."
"A receiver for biphase modulated signals using an integrate-and-dump filter is optimum only if the IF filter bandwidth is infinite. Finite IF filter bandwidth results is a performance degradation. Using the predetection signal-to-noise ratio as the performance criterion, a lower bound on this quantity is determined as a function of the ratio (IF filter bandwidth)/(bit rate). The corresponding upper bound on the error probability is also presented."
"Secondary acquisition systems, which operate with the knowledge that a signal is present, are modeled by a transient semi-Markov process. The behavior of the model is analyzed, using system analysis, to define the parameters of the acquisition system which minimize average acquisition time. A simple example is analyzed in detail to provide insight into the model."
"A method of analysis has been developed for feedback systems employing commutated networks in the forward loop and linear transfer functions in the feedback loop. The method handles single-phase and polyphase commutated networks as well as coupled and uncoupled networks. Although commutated networks are linear from the superposition theory viewpoint, linear feedback theory is shown to be not applicable because of the harmonics present in the feedback loop. Techniques for simplifying the analysis of commutated networks by the use of equivalent block diagrams provide additional insights into commutated network operation."
"A recursive method is given for resolving signals overlapping in time. Assume that the signal waveform is known and several signals are received. The signals (of unknown number) may overlap with one another and the amount of time delay of each individual signal is unknown. The signals are corrupted with additive white Gaussian noise. The problem is to estimate the number, the amplitudes, and the time delays of the overlapping signals. Assume that at a certain instant tk-1 estimates have been made on the number of signals arriving in the time interval (O, tk-1) and the amplitudes and time delays of these signals. Using these estimates, we test at tk the hypothesis H1 that a new signal arrives at tk against the null hypothesis Ho that no new signal arrives. The decision gives the number of signals arriving in the time interval (0, tk); the parameters are then re-estimated. The overlapping signals are detected and resolved, and the estimates are improved at each stage. The system is analyzed in detail, and computer-simulated results are presented."
"The problem of implementing a monopulse tracking radar is considered when three beams are used rather than the customary four. Signal processors are developed for both amplitude and phase comparison radar cases and the functional form is given for the general case (a combination or hybrid case). Accuracy is investigated by applying the Cramer-Rao inequality. General results are given for the maximum theoretical accuracy of estimating target amplitude, phase, and position angles when the radar is of the amplitude comparison type. Equations sufficient for obtaining accuracies in the phase comparison and combination cases are included."
"Conceptual designs of out-of-core thermionic space power generators using heat pipes have been produced for various powers, temperatures, and constraints or parameter values. Since major impediments to inpile thermionic systems are alleviated or eliminated in the out-of-core concepts, a competitive degree of feasibility and competitive specific masses are adequate to establish the need for emphasis on these systems in future studies and development activities. Feasibility in the six cases shown here in conceptual detail appears to be limited only by lithium heat-pipe feasibility and a favorable outcome of current technology development of UN, W, and Li materials in the temperature range considered. For example, one man-rated system at 300 kWe and 1800°K shows a specific mass of 8 kg/kWe and will accommodate an 18-meter payload at a 50-meter distance."
"Employing techniques similar to the averaging methods of Krylov and Bogoliubov, an approximate noise analysis of the phase-locked loop with signal clipping is presented. The validity of the method is demonstrated by comparing the stationary probability density function for the phase error, generated by a system simulation, with the derived theoretical results. The latter portion of the paper discusses the relation of the phase-locked loop to Kalman-Bucy filter theory and presents a demodulator design that illustrates the self-adaptive properties attainable in phase-locked loops with signal clipping."
"The generation of average probability-of-detection curves for threedimensional, or pencil-beam, radars, with compensation for random target position included statistically, is discussed. A fixed-array radar with step-scan operation is assumed and, with 3-dB beam crossover points, this is effectively the case of one pulse per beamwidth or one hit per scan. Numerical results are presented showing detection dependence on beam overlap, detection threshold, and amplitude scintillation. The fact that the average energy received from a target, assuming a uniform distribution of target position within a beam, does not lead to the correct average probability of detection at other than 0.5 P D is discussed and shown graphically."
"A modified quadrature channel phase-locked-loop demodulator for binary phase-shift-keyed signals is presented. The modification, called decision feedback, is a practical implementation of decisiondirected channel measurement. Noise analyses are carried out for both additive and phase noise. An optimum loop filter is derived and the analyses include determination of probability of error for the system. The results of an analog simulation of the decision feedback technique are also included."
"In order to determine the available test time in a helium-driven shock tunnel, an interface detection system has been developed to indicate the arrival of helium driver gas at the test section. This is done by exciting the gas at the test section with a high-energy electron beam and spectroscopically analyzing the resulting fluorescence to determine ine the helium concentration. Relative values of helium and air emission intensities are calculated and compared with experimental data from both static and transient gas mixtures."
"Doppler processing in pulsed radar is analyzed for time intervals which involve motion through range resolution cells, the emphasis being on the range-Doppler imaging of a rigid rotating body. The objective of the theory is to derive a method for compensating for motion through range and cross-range resolution cells. The compensation ion procedure described is compatible with optical data processing. With such a two-dimensional processor, the method permits simultaneous eous compensation for all points in the target field. The s consists of taking the Fourier transform in the range dimension, followed by a gentle distortion of this range-transform plane, and that followed by a two-dimensional Fourier transform. Two implementations with experimental results are briefly mentioned. One implementation is all optical and utilizes a holographic hyperbolic lens and/or holographic conical lens. The other implementation, involves applying the appropriate te distortion electronically as th \" range sweeps\" from the pulse train are received and put on film."
"The effect of an anisotropic reverberation pattern on the performance of various signal processing systems for linear sonar arrays was studied. It was determined that the use of clipping at each array element could seriously affect the performance of the system in comparison on to a similar analog system."
"Use of an analytic platform or strapdown system requires that the system em be initially leveled just as a conventional multigimbaled platform must be leveled. The process of leveling involves the determination of the orientation between the local vertical and an instrumented reference nce frame. With a conventional platform it is quite common to use a pair of servo loops to precess the inner gimbal until gravity signals are nulled on two orthogonally mounted accelerometers. The input axes of these two accelerometers thus define the horizontal plane and the platform is said to be leveled. A strapdown system, however, lacks the physical entity of the inner gimbal and consequently cannot be physically precessed into verticality. The method of leveling is nonetheless analogous if we consider the computational reference frame of the analytic platform to be the \"alter ego\" or counterpart of a physical inner gimbal. In general, strapdown leveling techniques can be divided into two categories: closed-loop leveling and open-loop leveling. These two techniques are quantitatively developed and discussed in this paper."
"In the vicinity of reflecting objects, a VOR receiver picks up both the direct and reflected signals. This summation adds both amplitude and phase modulation to the signal that were not present at the transmitter. The error due to this phase modulation is fairly evident since the desired directional information is transmitted as a relative phase. What is not so evident is the fact that the amplitude modulation can also produce a phase error. This happens when asymmetrical filters are used to process the amplitude-modulated signal. The asymmetrical filter converts some of the amplitude-modulated sidebands into phase modulation which is recorded as a direct phase error."
"Error probability for discriminator detection of PCM/FM is considered for those cases in which the IF bandwidth-bit duration product b0 τ≥ 1, and the effect of low-pass filtering is included. The analytical results are in good agreement with the available experimental data. The optimum deviation ratio and the effect of premodulation filtering are also considered."
"The operation of a large class of physical systems ems can be described through application of singular integral equations written in the time domain. This correspondence shows that Wolf's theorem and a general form of Parseval's theorem can be used to transform the integral equation to the S-plane, the result being an integral equation which readily yields the complex frequency response of the system."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Radioisotope power supplies for heart assist devices and total replacements are being developed. In a radioisotopically powered artificial heart, heat from the decay of radioisotopes would be converted to fluid power to operate a blood pump. Radioisotope power sources offer the advantages of being completely implantable and having a relatively long life. Initial efforts have been directed toward developing conceptual designs of radioisotope heat engines, evaluating candidate radioisotopes fuel forms, and studying the radiation doses to be expected from the various fuel forms. Conceptual design studies indicate that a power supply capable of meeting the specifications of a circulatory support system can be developed. The most promising fuel is plutonium-238. Radiation does not appear to be a problem."
"It is well known that there are several ways to define a sensitivity function in the time domain. The results are reported of a study in which these definitions are compared. Controllers designed on the basis of these sensitivity functions are related to each other and conclusions are drawn about their usefulness in control system design."
"A stochastic model of pseudorandom (PR) signals is adopted and a statistical analysis carried out of the velocity (i. e., Doppler) and acceleration tolerances of wide-band PR matched filter sonar systems. The reference functions for these correlation detection systems are considered to be time-compressed or time-expanded replicas of the transmitted signal. Results are derived for the case of a PR signal having a flat power spectral density over a finite bandwidth. It is shown that the velocity and acceleration tolerances are essentially independent of the signal bandwidth and that therefore the radar-derived expressions for the narrow-band tolerances can be extended to the wide-band sonar case. An interesting result is that the derived acceleration tolerance is approximately three times the widely used estimate that is based on the target remaining in the same Doppler channel over the integration time."
"A likelihood receiver for a Gaussian random signal process in colored Gaussian noise is realized with a quadratic form of a finite-duration sample of the input process. Such a receiver may be called a \"filtered energy detector.\" The output statistic is compared with a threshold and if the threshold is exceeded, a signal is said to be present. False alarm and detection probabilities may be estimated if tabulated distributions can be fitted to the actual distributions of the test statistic which are unknown. Gamma distributions were fitted to the conditional probability densities of the output statistic by equating means and variances, formulas for which are derived assuming a large observation interval. A numerical example is given for the case in which the noise and signal processes have spectral densities of the same shape or are flat. The optimum filter turns out to be a band-limited noise whitener. The factors governing false alarm and detection probabilities are the filter bandwidth, the sample duration, and the signal level compared to the noise. Two sets of receiver operating characteristic curves are presented to complete the example."
"The ideal phase detector characteristic is analyzed for estimating the phase difference between two stochastic input signals. This can essentially be described as a correlation process formed by multiplying the two input signals and extracting the phase. High signal-to-noise ratio conditions are assumed to linearize the system with respect to the noise. The effects of the nonlinearity on the signal are handled in terms of a series expansion and by using low-pass filtering on the receiver output. The mean square error of the system is calculated for some typical parameters."
"Essential design factors and system characteristics are explored for integration of large power systems into manned space stations. The impact of the type of power system selected upon the space station is outlined, as is the impact of the mission requirements upon the selection of power systems. Criteria for resolving the selection/application/ integration problems are provided. Comparisons between systems are based on recently defined space-station models for 90-day to five-year mission durations in the 1970' s, with four-to nine-man crews. Power systems encompass power levels from 3 to 50 kWe and include solar cell/battery. fuel cell, hybrid fuel cell/solar cell, radioisotope, and nuclear reactor systems. Thermoelectric, Brayton cycle, organic Rankine, and liquid-metal Rankine power conversion systems are considered for the nuclear energy sources. Both rigid and roll-out photovoltaic array configurations are analyzed with respect to the solar energy source."
"Dynamic system error analysis techniques frequently require a measure of trajectory terminal error due to initial condition dispersions and random system variations. The adjoint method described herein is an expeditious technique for determining sensitivities of terminal error to initial condition errors in nonlinear time-varying systems. In addition, mean square error deviation from a nominal trajectory is obtained using adjoint-generated sensitivity functions. Also terminal error marginal probability density due to Gaussian time-invariant random system parameter variations is generated provided a statistical description of trajectory initial dispersions and variational parameters can be supplied. A simple second-order system is used in the first example to illustrate the computation of sensitivity functions. A thirty-third-order, six-degree-of-freedom homing missile model is then used as the fixed plant for an error analysis which illustrates the application of the technique to a realistic situation."
"In moving target indicator radar receivers a saturation is always present in the IF stages in order to compress the dynamic range of large clutter inputs. This nonlinearity greatly affects the performances of the cancelling circuits, because of the spreading of the spectra. A quantitative analysis of this effect has been conducted, with an analytical expression chosen for the limitation characteristic. A high degradation of both single-and double-canceller improvement factors has been obtained. Losses of 20 dB for the double canceller are not uncommon. Clutter residue levels at the receiver output have also been computed in order to see how the performance compares with ideal constant false alarm rate behavior."
"The problem of estimation of angle of arrival in amplitude comparison monopulse (ACM) radars in the presence of internally generated thermal noise is considered. A pulse-type radar is assumed and angular noise is postulated to be absent. In the treatment of the problem, explicit inclusion of various simple models for the pulse returns is made to draw a relationship between the a priori statistics of the echo signals and the ability to estimate the angle of arrival in ACM radars. A maximum likelihood analysis is made to determine the form of the estimates of angle of arrival for the various cases and the accuracy of these estimates is evaluated as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio per hit and of the number of hits. Although most of the estimates considered have already received attention, many of the results are believed to be new."
"An optimal closed-loop control scheme is developed for a linear timevarying system. The system has two independent parameters which may deviate from their nominal values. The problem is motivated by the possible failure of the control system of the large launch booster after takeoff. The computational scheme involves an iterative algorithm and requires the solution to a matrix Riccati equation. An example is given as an illustration."
"In many radar systems, efficient use of transmitter power requires the transmission of a constant-amplitude signal for a substantial fraction of time; for a monotonic transmission, however, the range resolution is restricted by the length of the transmitted pulse. Linear frequency modulation removes this constraint for targets with negligible, or known, radial velocities; it is not suitable, however, for simultaneous observations of range and radial velocity (Doppler shift). This paper describes a class of waveforms suitable for simultaneous measurement of range and Doppler shift. These waveforms are characterized by a uniform distribution in frequency and by pseudorandom frequency changes. Uniform frequency distribution is attained by a uniform spacing of frequencies with each frequency present for an identical length of time. Frequency changes are effected by sequencing the frequencies with a pseudorandom number generator. Ambiguity functions are computed for pseudorandom frequencymodulated waveforms designed for ionospheric backscatter studies. By suitable choice of parameters, the ambiguity function becomes a narrow central peak surrounded by a plateau whose height varies randomly between zero and approximately twice its average. Waveform generation by means of a digital frequency synthesizer and data reconstruction considerations are described."
"An equation for the spectral window function for analog network analyzers is derived without assumptions on length of data interval available. The equation, given in terms of filter pole-zero locations for both the filter-bank and heterodyned-input type analyzers, can be programmed on a digital computer without difficulty. As an illustration, the \"growth\" of a spectral window with increasing length of available data is shown for a special case: a single-tuned circuit followed by a squaring circuit and perfect integrator. The error in using the usual approximation also is indicated. Use of the derived equation for quantitative comparisons of analog and digital analyzers is noted."
"Linear dynamical systems with transport lags are characterized by linear differential-difference equations. The task of identifying unknown parameters in such systems from the input-output data is difficult due to mathematical complications associated with differentialdifference equations. This paper presents a method which solves the identification problem. The method is digitally oriented and shows how a continuous-time system can be identified by discrete techniques. The solution is based on Kalman's least square method. The identification procedure essentially involves two steps: 1) discretizing the continuous system via finite difference approximation, and 2) estimating the parameters through the identification of the resulting discrete model. Experimental results have verified the validity of the proposed method."
"Manned space flight offers the opportunity to couple the astronaut /scientist's ability to select and process data and to calibrate, modify, and repair instruments with the vantage point for astronomical observations provided by a platformlocated above the Earth's atmosphere. The role which manned space flight may play in the 1970-1990 time period in meeting astronomy research needs is examined. The instruments and facilities that appear feasible for that period are described."
"The Goddard Experiment Package will measure the ultraviolet spectral emittance of stars and nebulae. It has a spectral resolution of 2 Å in the 1050-Å to 4000-Å band. The telescope has a 38-inch clear aperture and automatically reduces the spectral data to digital form. Guidance accuracy is 1 of second arc."
"A family of two-mirror correctors has been devised in a more advanced form than that obtained by Paul in 1935. These correctors can be used in combination with any paraboloidal telescope of even the largest size and will yield a greatly enlarged photographic field without the need for refracting elements of any kind. Such correctors will be of particular use in the ultraviolet, and for space-borne telescopes into the far ultraviolet, with performance limited only by diffraction over angular fields appreciably larger than available heretofore."
"The process of \"closing the loop\" in a design process relates to the flow of quantitative data regarding lens or mirror performance among all engineers involved in the production of an optical system. Recent developments in applied optics have made this a computerized process. The history and significance of the process is described, with stress placed on the automation of interferometric lens or mirror test methods."
"Segmented active optics is a new design concept for making a lightweight optically stable primary reflector for large optical telescopes and especially for space telescopes. The concept applied to a threesegment 20-inch primary mirror has been proven feasible in laboratory experiments. Test results showed diffraction-limited performance with automatic optical figure control to better than L/50 rms."
"Active control of a thin, deformable mirror is one approach to obtaining diffraction-limited performance from large orbiting telescopes. The control system design requires knowledge of the mirror reaction to the multiple forces used to maintain the desired mirror figure. A structural analysis program is used to obtain estimates of the static deflections of a point-loaded, thin, shallow, spherical primary mirror. The calculated deflections are compared to experimentally measured deflections for a specific configuration."
"Computer simulation results are presented for the planar equations of motion of an attitude-stabilized orbiting telescope passively coupled to a manned service module. This coupling is provided through a set of soft springs and a two-axis gimbal aligned with the telescope center of mass. Principal nonlinearities in the suspension system and the telescope control system are included. The simulation indicates preliminary nary feasibility of this operational mode."
"The background and historical development at Corning Glass Works of lightweight mirror blanks are presented. Design considerations using a new low-expansion glass are given. The combination of the new material with near-zero thermal expansion and a fused monolithic core technology allows lightweight mirrors to be manufactured with weight savings approaching 80 percent of the equivalent solid and, at the same time, provides exceptional thermal and dimensional stability. Illustrations of lightweight mirror structures and core configurations are also presented."
"The construction of lightweight mirrors requires materials with good welding properties that also are free from creeping effects. The described construction gives a good balance between weight reduction (50 to 60 percent) and rigidity. The ability of the mirror to withstand mechanical and thermal loads is proved by measurements of surface distortion under mechanical load, during radiation heating, heating through the support system, and temperature cycling. The impact and shear strength of the fused joints are examined by several tests."
"A torsional testing facility is described for the measurement of the delayed elastic (viscoelastic) and nonrecoverable (plastic) strains in materials in the region of 10-5 to 10-10 strain. The measurements obtained find applicability in the design and construction of large, diffraction-limited reflecting optics. Representative experimental data are presented."
"The operation of a precision telescope system suspended in near space by a large balloon presents hardware problems and conditions uniquely different from ground-based astronomical equipment. The hostile environment, the weight limitations, the remote commanding, the platform stability, and the need for extreme pointing accuracy (to accommodate the diffraction-limited optical system) demand that special attention be given to both hardware and operating techniques. Stratoscope II, an unmanned balloon-borne 36-inch telescope, was floated at an 80 000-foot altitude during one night in May, 1968. The ground-commandable telescope acquired, tracked, and photographed several stellar objects. Pointing inaccuracy was 0.015 on 5th magnitude stars and 0.05 on 7.5 magnitude stars, this despite a temperature gradient across the telescope tube which degraded the images that are both photographed and tracked by the telescope. Details on telescope configuration, pointing method, focusing, and thermal problems are given."
"The characteristics of the guiding system of the Spectro-Stratoscope (a balloon-borne solar telescope) for spectroscopic studies of the sun are described. The telescope system is almost completely decoupled from the balloon suspension. Hydrostatic bearings and a spherical torque motor are described in detail. The fine-stage guiding system locking on the solar granulation is described and the principle of automatic focusing explained."
"The main types of satellite tracking cameras developed in Germany (GDR) are described: 1) the 8-inch mirror-lens camera using a rotating shutter and an equatorial mount (Geodetic Institute at Potsdam), 2) the 12-inch camera with a Sonnefeld optical system on a four-axis mount (Technische Hochschule at Ilmenau), and 3) the highly automated\" Automatic Camera for Astrogeodesy\" using a 17-inch Schmidt optical system on a four-axis mount (VEB Carl Zeiss at Jena)."
"Formulas have been derived for a sharp cutoff biphase digital communication channel, which yield the relationship between the (signal-to-noise ratio) at the input to the decoder and the SNR at the threshold detector. The channel has narrow bandwidth and parabolic noise density. The formulas are given in terms of tabulated functions."
"The refraction error ε in measurements made with the simple interferometer is found to be similar in nature to the refraction error ε in the conventional radar measurement. For elevation anglesθ > 10°, ε' - ε > 0.05 mrad, when ε is computed after correcting for refraction along the interferometer extrapath S3."
"A discrete model of a delta modulated control system is developed. By using this model, all modes of oscillation of the delta modulated control system, at sampling instants, can be found. Necessary conditions for such modes of oscillation are established."
"Recently the concept of spherical error probable (SEP) has been gaining acceptance as a means of defining the error ellipsoid for radar accuracy in three dimensions. The corresponding quantity for a two-dimensional case is circular error probable (CEP). Both SEP and CEP are defined and a set of curves is given to determine their values for most radar situations."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In this new technology the history to date adds up to a very small record of operating experiences, along with a variety of deficiencies and failures. s. At this stage the development of atomic power suffers from a urge of over-optimistic promotion plus a general breakdown in engineering responsibility and control of safety that could culminate in a national catastrophe."
"This is part of a study concerned with the analysis of phase-locked loops (PLL's). The broad objective throughout this work is to improve upon our general understanding in this important area. More particularly, ly, we are seeking quantitative results indicative of the pull-in behavior of PLL's. In the present paper, we point out some results in foreign publications and focus attention on a paper by Kapranov [1] which is devoted to the study of the pull-in frequency of second-order PLL's with a symmetric phase comparator. We apply the same approach and present results, in closed form, in the more general case where the phase comparator possesses an asymmetric triangular characteristic. Special cases of this phase comparator are the sawtooth and symmetric triangular comparators. It can also be viewed as an approximation to the Tanlock phase comparator. The RC filter case is treated."
"This paper analyzes the case of limiting an incoherent or coherent interference signal at the frequency of a biphase or quadriphase digital signal. The results give the IM products, interference, and attenuation of the digital signal, plus interference through a hard limiter."
"The fix error, for long-distance XIF navigation systems in which the distances to two or three ground-based stations are determined, is a function of the \"angles of cut\" of the lines of position, the standard deviation of the errors in determination of the distances (ranges) to the stations, and the degree of correlation of these distance determinations. An analysis is made of the errors which occur in a range determination. n. Estimates, applicable when comparing constant-error contours (isograms), are given. The equations for the constant-error contours are derived (based on a spherical earth) as a function of baseline length (and orientation where three stations are used) and the angles of cut of the lines of position. n. Various error isograms were computed and plotted through the use of a digital computer. A number of examples are presented. A method for determining the area covered acceptably by two stations is given and three-station coverage characteristics are discussed."
"A measure of analog correlator performance is considered and interpreted reted as an output signl-to-noise ratio. This quantity is shown to depend on the fourth-order expectation of the input signals and the characteristics of the integrating system. Based on the output signal-to-noise ratio, figures of merit are established for correlators utilizing an ideal low-pass filter, an RC filter, and a finite time integrator. These figures of merit indicate to what degree the correlators reject noise components. For jointly Gaussian inputs, the variation of the output signal-to-noise ratio with the input signal-to-noise ratio is shown to be independent of the integrating system. Finally, a graphical comparison indicates the characteristics of the three systems for several different parameters. This comparison shows that the finite time integrator is superior to the other two systems considered."
"The problem of estimating the a priori statistics of a nonstationary process is considered using finite-time averages of experimental data. A model of the form of a linear time-invariant difference equation with a stationary independent random sequence driving function is proposed and investigated. Finite-time averages are calculated and then used in a steepest descent method to determine the coefficients of the difference nce equation. Methods are presented for transforming this model to the statespace pace format necessary for Kalman filtering, and an example is given using actual gyro drift-rate data."
"The inclusion of the integrated nongravitational acceleration outputs from an inertial measurement unit in an optimal linear navigation policy is treated. This formulation appears to be considerably different nt from the treatments of IMU data for space vehicle navigation that have previously been discussed and promises to yield considerably better results in many instances. It has the advantage that the data are processed in an optimal fashion that makes the best use of knowledge of the general system characteristics. Further, the IMU enters the formulation in the same manner as any other sensor and, therefore, provides a more uniform method of treatment. Two methods of dealing ng with the IMU are discussed and then applied to a simple example. The advantages of the second formulation are observed to be quite significant."
"A theoretical analysis of the Doppler return from a random rough surface ace shows that the Doppler spectrum is composed of three distinct components. The methods of analysis for determining the average power return for the static case and an application of the ergodic hypothesis for a stationary surface show that the assumption of a single Doppler component is based on a smooth surface. In addition to this coherent component, the incoherent components of the random rough surface produce two additional frequency components. The amplitudes of these latter components depend on the variance of the surfaceand the antenna beamwidth averaging. Radar measurements were made, utilizing a scatterometer, in order to measure the surface characteristics. s. Simultaneous measurements from a Doppler radar system were analysed to identify the additional frequency components."
"This paper develops synthesis techniques for a particular type of single-sideband sinusoidal carrier which is phase modulated by a subcarrier. Mathematical expressions for signal efficiency, sensitivity of design to parameter variation, and ratio of peak to average power are derived and incorporated in a computer program. Given the desired power ratios for modulated signal components, the program solves for the corresponding modulation parameters and evaluates signal efficiency, design sensitivity, and peak to average power ratio. A sample signal design is presented for clarity."
"A ground testing method has been devised to evaluate the dynamic errors of an inertial navigation system. A trimmed stationary inertial system in the navigation mode can be subjected to programmed platform orm drift rates, and generate position outputs which are compared with those of a perfect navigator. The linearized error equations for this testing mode are derived and the resulting position error propagation is analyzed using Kalman filtering in order to identify the error sources. A simulated platform with a fixed set of error sources is analyzed to evaluate this testing concept. An example is presented to show that the gyro and accelerometer scale factor and misalignment error coefficients can be estimated."
"The laser beam affords a valuable carrier medium for an optical calmunication system, but such a system for transmission through the atmosphere is subjected to wide fluctuations in received signal strength because of turbulence. An electrooptical automatic gain control system em has been studied and built which can substantially reduce the effect of these fluctuations. The effect of system parameters on the control characteristics are considered."
"This paper presents an analysis of a magnetic suspension device which is used in place of mechanical bearings for the gyro rotors of inertial guidance systems. A formula for the suspension device's strength is derived, the criteria for the device's stability is given, and the device's potential instability (when that criteria is violated) is explained. Data are given of an experiment which confirms the analysis of this instability."
"Techniques for reducing bearing errors in vertical loop HF direction finders for ionospherically propagated signals were evaluated in a dual-channel system. A main channel provides a bearing display from the output of a rotating loop; an auxiliary channel unblanks the bearing ng display when propagation conditions are favorable for minimum bearing error. Circuitry to provide optimum unblanking for a wide variety of signal and fade conditions is described. The results of an operational evaluation are presented and show that a large majority of the unblanked bearings can be restricted to ±15° of the great-circle bearing with average bearing errors of 10° or less. Operational comparison with a contemporary system shows that the dual-channel system performance is superior with a 2 to 1 reduction ion in bearing spreads, standard deviations, and RMS error."
"This paper describes a malfunction isolation technique which is applicable, primarily, to electronic systems. The technique is effective for essentially 100 percent of all failures, including multiple,terintermittent, interconnection, and closed-loop failures, to the discard-at-failure (DAF) hardware level. The value of the technique, in addition to its simplicity and ease of use, is that, in very complex systems, it virtually eliminates the requirement for complex procedures, high personnel skill levels, and manual test equipment necessary for malfunction ion isolation. The sine qua non of the technique is the packaging of the equipment. Each level of hardware must contain approximately four plug-in packages per package. Malfunction isolation is accomplished by substitution of packages in the top level, one at a time, until the defect is corrected. Next, the second-level packages in the defective top unit are replaced, one at a time, until the bad package at this level has been identified. The packages are substituted in each subsequent level until the DAF item is reached. When an equipment is packaged according to this technique, the average number of substitutions required to isolate to a single malfunctioned DAF item is approximately 1.8 times the natural logarithm of the number of DAF items in the system. For example, a system containing 4100 DAF items requires about 15 substitutions to locate a single defective item. The foregoing is true when no information is available regarding the best sequence of exchange. If such information is available, the number of substitutions will be reduced."
"A conceptual system is proposed and described for the control of a multiplicity of drone aircraft. Each target (drone) aircraft is controlled, during a given mission, over a separate preprogrammed path comprised of straight line and circular arc segments. Full control of each target's altitude, plan position, and velocity is available. Position measurement can be obtained by use of either a radar or a bilateration method where altitude is measured in either case by each aircraft and telemetered to a central control point. Velocity is obtained by smoothing position data in a central computer, which also controls the entire mission complex."
"In digital communication systems, optimum estimation and detection algorithms require that precise knowledge of the bit transition time be known to the receiver before bit-by-bit detection can be made. This paper presents the derivation of Bayes or maximum a posteriori estimation algorithms for optimum estimation of bit timing. Performance of the optimum system is evaluated and suboptimal realizations suggested."
"The behavior of the oscillating limiter (OL) driven by FM signals is surveyed, and its performance with signal corrupted by noise is investigated. For high values of the carrier-to-noise ratio (CNR), if the frequency deviation of the signal is small in comparison with the locking range of the OL, it is calculated, and experimentally verified, that a system OL discriminator is equivalent to a system bandpass limiter discriminator followed by a linear network whose frequency response has been specified. When the frequency deviation is not so small, the baseband noise power increases with it; a formula is given that allows the calculation of this power when the signal is such that the circuit operates in quasistationary fashion. For low values of the CNR, a mathematical analysis presents unsurmountable difficulties. However, heuristic argumentation leads to an interpretation of the operation of the OL in the threshold region, which is substantiated by an experimental investigation. The results of this paper enable a comparative evaluation of a system OL discriminator and a system bandpass limiter discriminator, to which the former reduces when the feedback path in the OL is open."
"The results of an experimental investigation of binary error rates in an FSK channel experiencing nonselective fading are presented. For all cases considered, the received frequency uncertainty is large compareded to the bit rate, requiring the use of an envelope detector rather than a matched filter. Both slow and fast fading rates are considered and include the effects of differential Doppler shift between the direct and reflected energy. A simplified mathematical analysis is presented to support the observed results. Both the theoretical examination and the data obtained demonstrate that fast fading and/or differential Doppler generally improve the link error rate performance with respect to the nonfading case."
"A new, simpler derivation is presented for Stansfield's formulas for the most likely position ion and the distribution of its error when a number of bearings are measured from known locations. The simplification results from the use of complex numbers. Simple results are obtained for the case in which bearings are measured at regular, short intervals along a straight reconnaissance flight path, providing asymptotes for Butterly's curves."
"Statistical distribution functions were determined ined for the radar cross section for flying aircraft. Most distributions could be adequately represented by one or another member of the family of chi-square functions. The degree of freedom parameter varied widely."
"An ideal quantum receiver is to detect a coherent narrow-band optical signal in the presence of thermal background radiation. Curves are given both of the average probability of error in a binary communication system transmitting O's (blanks) and 1's (pulses) with equal probabilities, and of the probability of detection for various fixed values of the false-alarm probability."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Helene Frischauer was our - and your Administrative Editor, our link with the headquarters Editorial Department, and the channel through which we sent your contributions to be transformed into finished editions. Ever kind and generous, she pursued each of us with a combination of diligence, dignity, and tact that made us know that she cared. For those of us remote from New York she was the ever-polite, ever-kind voice of cheeriness on the telephone. She took time to listen to our problems, and many times offered us solutions based on her years of experience. In spite of thousands of opportunities to do so, she never lost her sense of humor. Most of the Transactions came into being under her guidance, as she worked for the IEEE (and IRE) for 15 years; her attitude toward each publication is best exemplified by her own words: \"Each word is patted lovingly into place as it passes across our desks.\""
"Many competent sources have been predicting an increasing shortage of graduate engineers to perform needed research and development work in the United States. Consequently, many industrialists, educators, and government officials have been advocating an increased enrollment of students in the engineering curriculum in college in a greater effort to produce more engineers. This paper examines the assumptions behind the projected manpower shortage, and proposes some rather unique and occasionally radical alternatives to the solution of a manpower deficit. The paper, and the solutions, may produce violent controversy, but at least the material is not the usual dull rehash so often seen of late."
"Introducing rectangular coordinates for the reference coordinate system and the space-vehicle fixed-coordinate system, it will be shown that the transformation matrixes between both coordinate systems which describe the attitude of the space vehicle can be easily computed as functions of the rectangular coordinates of two precise directions known in both coordinate systems. In detail, an electronic attitude measurement will be described based on two precise propagation directions of RF waves. In order to measure the propagation direction in the space-vehicle fixed-coordinate system, a very general interferometer is described. This interferometer is characterized by the fact that the antennas of the interferometer are arbitrarily distributed on the surface of the space vehicle and that the electronic computation of the coordinates of the propagation direction of an RF wave is extremely simple. The design and some modifications of this system are discussed"
"In angle tracking antenna applications, the angle sensing boresight accuracy capabilities are important. The ability of an antenna to precisely determine the bearing angle to a point source is determined by the slope of the control function pattern at boresight. In the presence of extraneous interference, the magnitudes of the sidelobe and backlobe responses are important. Control pattern slope (angular sensitivity) is primarily a function of aperture illumination. It can be described by a current distribution in intensity and phase at every point. Once distribution is defined, lobe structure is defined by the associated transform. When more than one feed is used, the distribution will be a vector sum of the individual feed distributions. The resulting secondary pattern can be defined in terms of the amplitude distribution and the phase center locations of the contributing feeds. With a four-horn monopulse configuration, the feed phase centers are displaced from the boresight axis. Placing the phase centers on the boresight axis by rotating the feeds through 45 degrees results in a different set of intensity and phase values. A quite different secondary pattern results. The control function obtained by the subtraction of the powers from a paired set of on-axis feeds results in a lower sidelobe level than that obtained with a conventional monopulse combiner for a given feed taper."
"This paper describes a digital computer simulation of a double-binary phase-shift keying system. This simulation program is used to investigate the effects of limiting action and of the shape and bandwidth of the filter on the system performance, expressed in terms of error probability"
"This paper describes progress toward the development of a cascaded thermoelectric module capable of an efficiency of 10 percent. The integration of the module with an isotope heat source to provide a long-life high-efficiency space power system is discussed. The basic concept chosen to meet the efficiency objective consists of SiGe elements metallurgically bonded to an interstage plate which in turn serves as the hot plate for a PbTe stage. The PbTe stage uses segmented elements contained in a gas-filled hermetically sealed enclosure. The fabrication techniques developed to minimize extraneous temperature drops between the two stages and attain a mechanically stable module are described. The design leads to an efficiency in excess of 10 percent with the module operated between 1840 and 400°F. Performance testing of a 20-watt module is discussed and the results compared to the design values."
"A phase monopulse antenna system can be used for the high accuracy tracking of active or passive objects in space or on earth. Far-field noise sources that are present in the background of the object being tracked will introduce an offset or bias error in the determination of the angle of incidence of the coherent sinusoidal wave received from the source. The dependency of this bias error upon the nonuniformity of the noise background or equivalently upon the asymmetry of the antenna patterns about the direction to the signal being tracked is determined. Although the variance in the measurement of the sinusoidal source direction can be reduced by increasing the post detection integration time, it is shown that the bias or offset error is unaffected by this change. In order to decrease the offset or bias error the predetection bandwidth must be reduced."
"The synthesis of the phase-modulated waveform whose ambiguity function is the optimum estimate of some desired ambiguity function is accomplished by expanding the phase modulation in an orthogonal series. The ambiguity function x (τ, ωd)|2 and the value of an arbitrary cost function defined on the (τ, ωd) plane are then expressed in terms of the coefficients of the orthogonal series. The optimum waveform can then be determined by solving the variational equations for the coefficients. Numerical examples are presented for the case where it is desired to synthesize a desired ambiguity function x(τ, ωd) for some rectangular region of the (τ, ωd) plane."
"Growing complexity of some technological systems requires engineering assurance that the systems will perform effectively at some distant point in time, when all contractual requirements shall have been met and the first assembled system faces the performance test program. The many new- and old-related assurance disciplines are outlined briefly, as being indispensable to effective engineering acquisition of present day systems of large magnitude for civilian or defense purposes."
"Many modern telemetry systems which use phase-shift keying (PSK) have receivers which derive a coherent reference from the fully modulated PSK signal itself and thus conserve the energy which otherwise would be allocated to a discrete reference signal. In this paper, an optimum receiver structure for estimating a phase reference from the PSK signal itself is derived and its realization discussed. It is shown that at low signal-to-noise ratios, the optimum detector can be realized with a Costas loop. Since a Costas loop and squaring loop exhibit identical performance, it follows that either of these simple devices gives optimum performance for low-input signal-to-noise ratios."
"In the deployment of pulse Doppler (PD) radar, determination of phase and amplitude stability is the most difficult measurement problem. Unique requirements are placed on pulse and carrier stability so that the radar can perform in strong clutter. Because of subclutter visibility and sensitivity specifications, coherent noise, which is insignificant for noncoherent pulse radars, becomes extremely important. In solving the measurement problem, special support equipment was developed which is considered to have reached such a degree of refinement that it is probably one of the most technically advanced pieces of field test equipment supporting any operational radar. This paper discusses stability requirements, sources of instability, and the combination of techniques selected for verification of compliance of the PD radar with the stability requirements. The results of a program to develop special field support equipment to satisfy the measurement requirements are emphasized. Results of field experience and the special training required of military field personnel to enable them to effectively use this relatively complex support equipment are discussed."
"When relative motion exists between the antenna of a microwave radiometer and a random background, the variance of the radiometer output can, in many cases, be primarily determined by the spatial variance of the background. The result is a decrease in signal-to-noise ratio for small target detection. In this paper an interferometer is examined as a potential means of suppressing this background variance until the limiting variance imposed by the receiver is more nearly realized. A bivariate normal distribution in conjunction with three different correlation functions is assumed for the background apparent temperature field. The elements of the interferometer are assumed to possess a very narrow \"pencil\" power pattern. With relative motion between antenna and background, the audio power density spectrum at the output of the interferometer is exanmned. The background variance suppression achieved by an interferometer is shown to be a function of element spacing, wavelength, correlation distance for the background, range to the background, and form of the correlation function of the background. The result is that a radiometer may be designed which is receiver-limited rather than background-limited."
"This paper proposes and studies a class of signals which generalize frequency position modulation (FPM) and pulse position modulation (PPM). The generalization adds a degree of freedom analogous to a duty factor. Varying this quantity has an effect similar to that of varying the time-bandwidth occupancy in an FPM or PPM system, but it does not significantly increase the channel occupancy. The mean-square error is studied under large signal-to-noise ratio conditions and in the threshold region. We find that the additional degree of freedom allows us to trade between performance in these two ranges of signal-to-noise ratio. The nature of the signals, and their error behavior make them well suited to adaptive telemetry over a coherent channel. Small degrees of channel incoherence are considered and shown to produce only a small degradation in performance."
"A satellite has been designed for application to radar calibration. Electromagnetic and mechanical characteristics of the satellite and their influence on the selection of shape and other parameters are discussed. Theoretical and experimental scattering data are included."
"This paper discusses the problem of multiplexing asynchronous signals which are clocked from independent sources. Two solutions are offered to this problem: one provides a continuous transmission over a fixed period of time proportional to the bit rate integrity duration, and the other utilizes a bit stuffing technique. The former approach is used when the asynchronous signals are clocked from highly stable clocks, and also when the bit rate integrity period is on the order of a few hours. The latter approach is employed when the signal clocks are relatively less stable or the bit rate integrity period is very long. The reliability of these techniques is analyzed, and their efficiencies are evaluated and found to be most satisfactory. Synchronization procedures and probabilities of false lock and failure to lock are also described. In addition, a multiplex system illustrating these techniques is presented. The system multiplexes four input channels at a one megabit rate for each."
"The relative merits of intercept and pure pursuit homing are investigated by comparing the expected flight times to a nonmaneuvering target. The analysis is performed for the initial target heading angle uniformly distributed with arbitrary mean and variance. Two specific examples illustrate that intercept homing holds little statistical advantage over pure pursuit homing except when the speed advantage of the missile is very small."
"A radar in its surveillance mode requires the programming of the radar beam in fixed angular increments throughout the surveillance volume. Though radar coverage of the volume is complete, returns from possible targets differing only in angular position generally have unequal signal strengths. This is due to both beam shape and multiple beam coverage. The resulting nonuniformity in signal strength results in a loss factor termed beam shape loss (BSL). This correspondence contains the results of a valid computational procedure for determining this loss factor for the case of an electronically steerable array in a search mode. Results consist of curves showing BSL for a wide range of system parameters and for various target types. In addition, it is shown how optimum search beam locations can be determined from the BSL computations."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes two different experiments involving a microwavebeam and a helicopter. The first experiment utilized a CW microwavebeam to supply a small helicopter with all of the power that it neededfor its propulsion. The second experiment utilized an unmodulated CW microwave beam for supplying a position reference to the helicopterer with respect to roll, pitch, yaw, and horizontal translation. Thesecond experiment also involved the construction of a fully articulatedhelicopter and a complete control system carried on board theli-helicopter. The paper also attempts to relate the small scale experimentsand the present state of component technology to practical, full scalemicrowave-powered helicopter systems that can operate at altitudesof up to 50 000 feet."
"A detailed account is given of the application of a minimizationprogram to several design problems. Specifically these applications areconcerned with the design of a curve function generator for a massspectrometer for a proposed Mars probe and the design of autonomousshift registers with linear and nonlinear feedback, used for classificationion of binary sequences and counting tasks for spacecraft scientificdata processing."
"The temperature profile in a horizontal path forward of an aircraft canbe sensed with a multichannel 5-mm passive radiometric receivingsystem. The characteristic signature of the multichannel radiometricoutput as a function of time would provide a measure of the range tothe region of temperature discontinuity forward of the aircraft.Applicability to clear air turbulence (CAT) detection is predicatedon the assumption that temperature discontinuities, at least in somecases, are associated with regions of such turbulence. It is thereforeconcluded that such a device has potential application as a CATdetector.Preliminary calculations indicate that the presence of a CATregion could be detected approximately 5 to 6 minutes before penetration,on, assuming an aircraft speed of 0i/nm/ h.A description is given of the design and construction of a two-frequency instrument which will be used to support the measurementprogram for determining the correlation between the meteorologicalparameters that are associated with the phenomenon called CAT.A multifrequency multibeam system is also described as the detectorsystem for future supersonic aircraft."
"The Initial Defense Communication Satellite Program (IDCSP) hasbeen implemented successfully and is handling unique and vital militaryary communications. Tradeoff studies now being made are intended todefine the characteristics of the next phases of the Defense Satellite Communications Program (DSCP). This paper discusses briefly thecommunication subsystem design of the IDCSP for backgroundfor-information, and then discusses the design trends for future phases of the DSCP.The communication subsystem for the IDCSP is characterized bya single hard-limiting, low-power repeater with a toroidal patternantenna. Future trends in design will be toward multiple beams andmultiple repeaters with very wide bandwidths, high-powerquasilinear operation, and highly directive antennas. Several alternatetransponder configurations are evaluated in this paper, and an illustrativeive example is shown. Although long life is essential to future systems,as it was to the IDCSP, the trend will be to adding more complexity inthe satellite to increase the system capacity, while at the same timerequiring less complexity in earth terminals."
"This paper deals with a device designed for automatic determinationof coordinates for sea or river vessels sailing along coastlines. It givesa description of the block diagram and technical characteristics of thedevice, along with the results of experimental investigation."
"A current problem in aircraft navigation is determining how to effect alow cost navigation system consistent with required mission operationswhich will render a high degree of accuracy and reliability. One wayto achieve this is through optimum integration of equipment,subsystems, and computer mechanizations. Consistent with this approach,the overall objectives of this paper are to show the advantages of anoptimally integrated aircraft navigation system, and to illustrate howto effect a low cost navigation system with high accuracy performance.An integrated aircraft navigation system employing a Kalman optimumestimation filter is configured and analyzed in detail. The results ofthe analysis clearly indicate how to achieve high accuracy performanceusing low cost subsystems; namely, via optimum systems integration."
"Two methods of approximating the pull-in frequency cp of linearphase-locked loops are presented. Both methods are based on thephysically plausible, but not mathematically apparent, contention thatthe response of the phase error to a step change in mistuning, ϕϵ(t),can be used to predict ωp. The first method uses the ratio of the steadystatetate to peak valuϕϵ(t) as a measure of ωp. In the second method,the approximation is based on the shape of the time response of thephase error. This second technique is also employed to obtain ameasure of ωp for a nonlinear loop. Two other ways of approximatingthe wp of a nonlinear phase-locked loop, based on the concept ofobtaining an equivalent linear loop, are presented. These approximationsions represent a more easily implemented alternative to computersimulation as a method of obtaining a measure for ωp."
"This paper describes a study of those aspects of Omega navigationthat are unique to aircraft applications. The main effort of the studyis to use a digital computer to simulate the reception of Omega signals.Three principal conclusions are drawn: the poorer signal-to-noiseratio environment will not preclude reception; interfering carriers willnot preclude reception; and the required velocity-aiding accuracy isquite modest in terms of that which is readily available from inertialsystems."
"In this paper, the radar return from a clutter target illuminated by acircularly polarized wave is investigated statistically. The ratio of theenvelope of the left circular component to that of the right circularcomponent of the return signal is formed, and the probability densityfunctions and cumulative distributions of this ratio are found forlinear, square, and logarithmic law detectors. Plots of all densities anddistributions are given for several statistically modeled clutter-typetargets with typical depolarizing and back-scattering characteristics.The probability density functions for the ratio signal from a logaritmicic detector are compared for the cases of circularly and linearlypolarized waves incident on the same clutter-type target. Linearpolarization produces the worst case of spreading of the probabilitydensity function from its median value. Plots are given which indicatethat changes in the amount of depolarization by the clutter cause moresignificant changes in the median value of the polarizationration forlinear than for circular polarization."
"Current program planning in the area of lunar surface explorationenvisions missions of increasing energy requirements and duration.During the mid 1970's it has been estimated that the electrical powerrequirements for a 3-man mission of one year duration might be in theorder of 33 000 kWh. Load profiles to support regeneration of fuelcell reactants for lunar roving vehicles and base nighttime operationsindicate potential power levels of from 30 to 100 kW. An electricalpower system using a state-of-the-art photovoltaic energy conversionsource was postulated on the assumption that nuclear power systemtechnology would not be flight ready by this time period.The process of synthesizing an overall electrical power system isdiscussed. Included are analyses and system design rationale. A rangefrom 50 to 500 volts dc is considered and the effect on weight andefficiency determined. Additional system criteria such as thermalcontrol, reliability, and emergency operation are discussed. A shred-out oftotal system weight as a function of voltage and regulation is presentedfor a 36 kWload. The impact ofload level, conditioning efficiency,transmission length, and temperature on system weight is discussed. Sensitivityivity curves depicting the effect of variations in these parameters areprovided.It is concluded that an efficiency of 80 percent or greater can beattained by matching the load profile with distribution voltage."
"Requirements and constraints of unattended secondary batteryapplications are outlined and translated into battery charge control designcriteria. Attention is given to battery performance and reliabilityrequirements and power system interfaces. Charge control requirementsents are defined. Implementation analyses and selection of integralcell-level electronic charge controls are detailed. Feasibility of thecharge control concepts are demonstrated and merits of integralelectronic cell-level battery controls are summarized."
"Three orthogonalization techniques to correct errors in the computeddirection cosine matrix are introduced. One of these techniques is avectorial technique based on the fact that the three rows of a directioncosine matrix constitute an orthonormal set of vectors in aree-threedimensional space. The other two iterative techniques are based onthe fact that the inverse and transpose of an orthogonal matrix areequal. In computing a time-varying direction cosine matrix computationalional errors are accompanied by the loss of the orthogonaliterty prop-rty of the matrix. When one of these three techniques is useo re-restore the orthogonality of the matrix, the computational errors arealso corrected. These techniques were tested experimentally and theresults, given in this paper, were compared with a method used by the Honeywell Corporation."
"This paper presents the pointing vector and angular rate relationshipsfor various optical elements as well as techniques developed forestablishing comprehensive analytical models of precision electroopticalstabilization systems. Since the performance of such systemsmay be critically dependent on the disturbance environment and theintegrity of the associated mechanism, these factors are also examinedin detail."
"This paper reports on progress in signal design that has led to improvedresolution capability in radar and communication systems without theuse of complicated signal-processing techniques.Two approaches to the problem of improving resolution capabilityare made. The first approach emphasizes the need to produce sharplypeaked autocorrelation functions. The optimum signal amplitude infrequency is specified to accomplish this, and the spectral density ofthe deterministic signal is shown to satisfy a homogeneous Wiener-Hopfequation. The second approach emphasizes the need to producelow and flattened cross-correlation functions, in order to distinguishthem (since they correspond to error outputs) from the sharply peakedautocorrelation functions. With the use of stationary phase integration,a detailed method for producing any desired cross-correlationamplitude is presented. In particular, the techniques necessary to producesinusoidally modulated cross-correlation functions are discussed.These tools are applied to a realistic N-signal processing system,and the resulting optimum signals are shown to be amplitude-modulatedchirped sinusoids. Detailed examples for physically justifiablesystem parameters are included."
"A unified approach utilizing the Kalman-Bucy filtering technique istaken to solve the estimation problem of initial conditions and thesmoothing problem in linear dynamic systems. The equivalencebetween the forward integration method and the backward integrationmethod of the smoothing solution is proved. Complete analyticalsolutions of filtering and smoothing problems of rectilinear motion ofa randomly accelerated spacecraft are derived when the vehicle istracked by the ranging system at the ground station."
"The literature of radar contains results of Rice, Marcum, Swerling, and Schwartz in several families of curves, which permit radar engineersto estimate the signal energy ratio required for a given level of detectionperformance. The variety of radar problems, however, makes itimpractical to construct curves for all combinations of radar and targetparameters. The concept of detector loss is used here to evaluate lossesattributable to integration and collapsing, with an accuracy of ±0.3 dBon steady targets. This is added to a separate fluctuation loss, modifiedfor diversity effects, to obtain results on all Swerling target modelsand also on partially correlated targets. The accuracy of the combinedlosses is ±0.5 dB for a wide range of detection and false-alarm probabilities.Starting from the basic single-sample detection curves, onlythree additional graphs are needed to find the energy ratio for givendetection performance in any of these cases. Examples are given whichshow the ease with which different radar options may be compared asto performance on an arbitrary type of target."
"This paper presents the output waveform of a correlation techniquewhich incorporates time domain amplitude weighting and matchedfiltering. This scheme may be used in pulse compression radars wherefine target detail is desired over an increment of range, the rangewindow. Analytic expressions describing the amplitude, phase, andfrequency modulation of the output waveform are obtained for thecosine-squared weighted spectrum, truncated Taylor weighted spectrum,and cosine-cubed weighted spectrum with weighting mismatchas a parameter. The effects of such mismatches on the amplitude,phase, and frequency modulation of the compressed waveform areplotted. However, the methods used to obtain these results are generalenough to obtain output waveforms of other weighting functions similarlymismatched."
"The influence of ionospheric irregularities,e.g., sudden increase of electron content, onthe accurate determination of the position ofa satellite is being investigated. In this note amethod is presented whereby these effects areeasily accounted for in near-real time withoutthe need to know their detail structure."
"PCM/NRZ systems operating in the presenceof noise and in a band-limited channel areconsidered. Two types of bit detectors arestudied, integrate and dump, and sample. Theincreased signal power needed to give thesame performance as an optimum detectorand a broad-band channel is computed. Theresults depend on the bit pattern. The averageeffect of band-limiting over all bit patternsand two extreme cases are plotted for eachdetector. The results show that integrate anddump is always superior to sample and that ifthe sample detector is used, one should bandlimit before sampling at a frequency of 0.6times the bit rate."
"The similarity between the distribution lawfor the Swerling Case 3 target model and acertain member of the log-normal family isdemonstrated. This similarity is then used topredict some important features of the detectionprobability characteristic for that model.The predictions are found to be highly accurateand suggest possible extensions of theunderlying method to the case of truly lognormalsignal-to-noise ratios."
"A two-element adaptively phased array withelement gains of 18 dB was assembled andevaluated at 136 MHz. The gain improvementof the system over that of a single element wasmeasured while tracking ATS-C. The measuredgain improvement fell within 0.5 dB ofthe theoretical maximum 90 percent of thetime, corresponding to a normalized improvementof 2.5 dB for the two-element array. Athorough analysis of the AGC weighting processused in the system was made with particularemphasis placed on the effects of gainand noise figure variations between arraychannels."
"An expression is derived for the cost resultingfrom the stabilization of a satellite using aspecific optimal control (SOC). An exampleis given in which the optimal and SOC yieldvirtually identical costs."
"Based on the relationship between the inputand output correlation functions for a symmetric2N step optimum quantizer withGaussian noise inputs a computer programwas generated to obtain plots of the inputnumber of levels versus dynamic range of thequantizer. For it to be physically useful thedynamic range should be related to the distortionin the fundamental band and thedesired harmonic suppression. A definitionbased upon these considerations is suggestedand curves are plotted for two different fundamentaldistortion levels and three differentlevels of harmonic suppression. It is foundthat, for low levels of harmonic suppression(0-20 dB range), the dynamic range can beincreased by tolerating a higher level of fundamentaldistortion. In the medium range ofharmonic suppression (20-35 dB), any increasein the dynamic range due to higherfundamental distortion levels disappearsfor high level quantizers (typically 4 bitsor more). For still higher harmonic suppression(40 dB or higher), the dynamic range ofthe quantizer is independent of the acceptablefundamental distortion."
"In a recent paper dealing with the thresholdcharacteristics of a phase-locked demodulator(PLD) an experimental threshold characteristicis presented. In this correspondence, it isshown that a threshold extension of 5.8 dBover that PLD characteristic can be achievedby employing a standard limiter discriminator."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The sum of received power has been suggested as a method for providing improved signal detectability from a plurality of sensors while retaining omnidirectionality. This paper describes an alternative procedure for the two-element case that, while not quite omnidirectional, offers a decided advantage in detection performance over the power sum scheme. It involves taking the logical union of the thresholded power of the sum of the sensor outputs and the thresholded power of the difference of the sensor outputs. A comparison of the two systems is presented and it is shown that the latter scheme is almost always better than the former."
"This paper presents a quantitative discussion of two error sources which affect the accuracy of data comparison between instrument outputs and reference angle computations during multi-axis evaluation of strapdown gyros. The error due to misalignment of gyro input axes is formulated in terms of closed-form solutions for typical relationships between the three table gimbal rotation histories. If the angular positions of the table gimbal axes are measured by shaft encoders, then any measurement has an uncertainty in the range from plus to minus one-half of the quantization level. It is shown that the effect of encoder quantization error on the computer transformed angles in the bodyfixed coordinate system can be divided into two parts: the initial uncertainty of the zero positions of the gimbals before table motion is begun, and all subsequent error contributions during table test. Typical data for gyro misalignment and encoder quantization error effects are presented."
"The research reported herein deals with the general problem of the selection of radar waveforms. The investigation is specifically concerned with the synthesis of radar signals which are optimum in the sense that they are characterized by ambiguity surfaces minimized over certain predetermined regions of the ambiguity plane. The weighted ambiguity surface is utilized as the weighted error criterion. This error criterion is mathematically tractable and pertinent to radar system performance but is not unduly restrictive as some orientation parameters are left unspecified for subsequent cost or penalty function analysis. The signal optimization is approached by variational techniques augmented by equality and inequality constraints, for example, limiting the amount of bandwidth or frequency modulation to be less than some system requirement. Several examples are presented demonstrating the optimization techniques and providing a minimum error for the stated problem. It is shown that for any given type of amplitude modulation of the radar signal, the variance or dispersion of the ambiguity surface is not decreased for any type of phase modulation added. The optimum signal for an elliptical weighting function is derived for several cases. The minimum error is shown to depend upon the constraints and the unspecified orientation parameters and, for one case, on the second moment of the signal."
"The theory of nonlinear filtering has been applied to the problem of the attitude determination of a satellite. Two approximation methods have been studied with a view to practical implementation. Computer simulation results are included."
"The effect of changes in five physically meaningful parameters on the I-V (current-voltage) curve of a CdS solar cell is calculated. Comparisons between the calculated data and performance data obtained from degraded solar cells are made. The parameter that changed to cause the degradation in each cell becomes apparent."
"A geometrical model has been developed to permit accurate and detailed characterization of the instrument landing system (ILS) null reference glide path. The model utilizes a simplified CW measuring system operating at a frequency of 9.375 GHz, which corresponds to a wavelength scaling factor of approximately 30:1. An overall accuracy of 0.01° has been demonstrated for the model facility with an \"ideal\" ground surface, and satisfactory agreement has been obtained between model and flight test measurements for an existing nonflat glide path site. Geometrical modelling has potential advantages over other approaches in accuracy, economy, measuring convenience, and ability to assess proposed terrain modifications."
"The technique of applying state variable feedback methods to an existing control system is presented. The system response is improved through a redesign of the feedback elements of the original system having predetermined the desired closed-loop response. This improvement in response results from a reformulation of the system description in a state variable format leading to the feedback gains necessary to yield the desired response. The inaccessibility of some of the state variables required the additional design of shaping networks in order to satisfy the desired specifications. Frequency response and transient response test data taken from an analog model of the system illustrate very clearly the improvement in each response."
"A computer program concept is described for performing an electrical analysis and a transient thermal analysis of a satellite electric power subsystem consisting of a solar array, battery, and power controls. The program \"flies\" the power subsystem and certain thermally sensitive portions of the spacecraft through one or more complete orbits, and plots curves of voltages, currents, temperatures, and energy balance in critical parts of the power and thermal subsystems."
"Temperature cycling for more than 300 cycles and for temperatures down to - 175°C performed on soldered silicon cell assemblies with copper, Kovar, and molybdenum interconnectors showed a wide range in failures depending both upon the materials used and on interconnector thickness and substrate material. The solder fatigue failure rate is strongly dependent on stress level in agreement with analytical predictions."
"The problem of detecting coherent pulse trains with uniform amplitude in a clutter-plus-noise environment is considered. A radar processor for detecting targets moving radially with respect to the clutter is proposed. The minimum interpulse spacing of the transmitted signal is assumed long enough that returns are not received simultaneously from different ranges within a region of extended clutter, and the central frequency of the clutter power spectrum is postulated to be known. The processor is singled out as the linear filter, orthogonal to the clutter central frequency component, which yields the maximum ratio of peak signal power to average noise power. The filter can be implemented by slightly modifying the structure of the conventional matched filter. The performance of such a filter is compared with that achievable if full a priori knowledge of the input interference were available and with that of the conventional matched filter. This comparison is made on a signal-to-interference power ratio basis after assuming a transmitted signal consisting of equally spaced pulses and an interference characterized by an exponential covariance matrix."
"Radio direction finders based on the principles of interference measurement provide increased angular resolution as the number of bearing ambiguities increase. In spite of the diversity of interference direction finder design, the resolution of bearing ambiguities reduces to a simple relative phase measurement on crossed baselines less than λ/2 long. This principle is applied in a review of current interference direction finder (DF) designs from the Adcock to the multiwavelength interferometer including both analog and digital bearing computation and display. Analysis shows that simple digital logic circuits may be used to resolve bearing ambiguities in multichannel DF rather than the \"sense\" displays of conventional analog design. This technique has the advantage of keeping direction finding and sense finding functions simultaneous but separate so that the DF information is not degraded by the injection of the ambiguity resolving sense signal."
"This paper is intended as an exposition of some approximation techniques on irrational transfer functions which are frequently encountered in control systems. Two algorithms for continued fraction expansion and inversion are established."
"A model for an optical position estimation system is developed employing the photon Poisson process theory. The position estimate is based upon the definition of a center of gravity (CG) of the power density profile of the optical source on the focal plane. An estimator structure is derived using maximum likelihood estimates of the image profile. The resulting estimate of the CG is shown to be unbiased and its variance is obtained. The variance is shown to depend upon the signal energy and noise level as well as upon the distance of the center from the initial counting point. Thus, a composite estimation system is presented which reduces the variance and yet yields a simple structure. Studies on star estimation have yielded position accuracies better than 0.1 seconds of arc for a 2.5 visual magnitude star in a background of equivalent intensity."
"The Wiener-Hopf equation is developed using only a knowledge of elementary calculus and the definition of ensemble average from statistics. Then using the Leibniz equation for differentiating an integral, the Kalman filter and its relation to orthogonal projection is presented."
"The problem of minimum time frequency transitions in phase-locked loops with both phase and frequency controls applied is investigated using Pontryagin's maximum principle. Typically, a type II secondorder loop with a damping ratio of 0.707 subjected to a step change in the frequency of its input signal is considered and switchless control strategies that force the transients in the loop to settle down in minimum time are obtained."
"This paper describes a method of applying digital techniques to the control of a 1-kVA three-phase dc-ac inverter to generate a sinusoidal 400-Hz output, using high-frequency bridge-chopper techniques. The model which was constructed used predominantly off-theshelf digital microcircuits and resulted in a device with an overall efficiency of 85 percent, in a 0.52 cubic-foot package which weighed 19.5 lbs. Sinusoidal output with less than 2 percent harmonic distortion at 115 volts line to neutral was obtained with 28 volts dc input."
"Moving-window false report probability is shown to overestimate effects of noise. \"False-report-start\" probability is calculated and compared to the usual false report probability. The ratio of the two exceeds a simple function of window length, threshold, and noise probability, which is tabulated for some representative values."
"A lower bound exists for the accuracy with which the future position of a randomly accelerating target can be predicted. This bound applies even when noiseless data is optimally processed. In this correspondence, the prediction error bound is evaluated and presented as a universal curve for the case of a stationary random acceleration process with an exponential autocorrelation function."
"A simple model is developed to predict the center frequency shift due to nonlinear collector junction capacitance. This model shows reasonable agreement with experiments for peak output levels up to approximately one-half of the collector supply voltage."
"An equation giving the disturbance of ILS localizer signals by reflections from a flat hangar wall is derived, and a computer program for performing the required calculations is discussed. Results calculated for a hypothetical case are presented."
"Equations for calculating error standard deviation for return to a point are given for the case where noise corrupts the point coordinates. These equations are applied to CEP and drms calculations, and calculation of Loran precision of a fix for return to a specified point."
"A tilted loop technique has been developed to reduce bearing errors in loop HF directionfinder systems used on ionospherically propagated signals. Measures of signal elevation angle-of-arrival can be obtained. Theory of operation is stated. Field tests of an experimental model have verified the theory and disclosed significant improvements over a contemporary system."
"An amplitude-modulated active scatterer was used as a transponder in an elementary CW radar system. Some experiments at X-band are reported where the scatterer was an equiangular spiral antenna loaded by a biasmodulated tunnel diode."
"Communication satellite models are developed so as to indicate the proper number of spacecraft per launch vehicle and the proper spacecraft weight fraction which should be assigned to spacecraft housekeeping."
"This correspondence investigates the effect of a changing scattering ratio on the radar measurements of the coherent acceleration of a two-point scatterer. The two-point scatterer is assumed to have only rotational motion. An expression for the acceleration is obtained and its qualitative agreement with experimental results is given."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Microwave structures containing ferrite materials have been in common use for just over a decade. An established range of devices exhibiting non-reciprocal effects can be produced in wihich the design criteria give good agreelnent between theory and practice. It is argued that the art has become a science and several examples are briefly noted."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The wide spread use of acoustic waves in microwave devices is a possibility which has recently come several steps closer to reality. The most basic development is the emergence of a class of materials having extremely low losses at high frequencies, coupled to the discovery that electroacoustic transducers can be both efficient and broad-band. In this survey, some of the possibilities which arise in the light of these developments, both for active and for passive components are discussed. It is believed that in the immediate future, the main area of application will be that of passive components, where the size advantage offered by the acoustic devices is most urgently required."
"These devices are based on the bulk negative differential conductivity, occurring in certain two-valley semiconductors at high bias fields as a result of the inter valley scattering of hot electrons. The study of this inter valley scattering mechanism in GaAs and the resulting velocity field-strength characteristic will be very briefly reviewed."
"The development of submillimetre wave region (λ < I mm) called for the search and elaboration of new transmission lines. This paper considers several types of equasi-optical lines, that are most suitable for this wave range namely: oversize rectangular waveguide, lens and diaphragm transmission lines and also some types of dielectric and metal-dielectric pipes."
"The applicability of orthogonal expansion onto general diffraction problems in finite spaces is widened by the introduction of an \"intermediate medium\". This medium is employed for calculating the scatter coefficients of a sudden cross-sectional change of a round waveguide, in the form of an offset. Several scatter coefficients are available from curve plots. Further curves show reflection and transmission when an H10-mode arrives at a sudden cross-sectional expansion on all sides of a rectangular waveguide. For a rectangular waveguide with periodical enlargements on one side a diagram shows the propagation constants of different wave modes, the pass bands and stop bands, and the appearance of complex waves."
"A unique, compact, multipurpose antenna system capable of operating in three frequency bands is described. Design techniques and empirical data are presented. Illustrations and performance characteristics of each antenna and the composite assembly are given. The overall antenna system performance is very satisfactory. Each portion of the system shows high gain and good radiation pattern and voltage-standing-wave-ratio characteristics. Measured data presented show that the interaction between antennas due to their close proximity is minimal. Results indicate that the design concept is good and satisfies the demands of many sophisticated radar systems."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Corning Glass Works Plant at Martinsburg, W. Va., is a 330 000-ft3 plant located on 66 acres of land. The principal product is Corning PYROCERAM®cookware."
"In the past the conventional method of driving large ball mills included some form of speed reducing gear between the higher speed driving motor and the lower speed ball mill. Process developments in the mining and cement industries have increasingly tended toward the use of ever larger ball mills for grinding their products. As the horsepower drive ratings required have increased to several thousand horsepower, and as advances in technologies in terms of the use and application of adjustable frequency power conversion equipment have occurred, the basis for driving the ball mill directly by the driving motor with no intervening gear has been created. Several such units will shortly be in service in Europe. The use and application of such drives are described."
"This paper defines maintenance in the sense of actually maintaining adequate levels of light on the work surfaces in and around the cement plant. It considers safety in the maximum sense of the way adequate lighting systems can contribute to the safety of personnel, equipment, and the electrical systems themselves."
"Direct ac-to-ac frequency converters can be built using solid-state devices. This paper is primarily concerned with three-phase to single-phase converters where the output frequency is greater than the input frequency. In these converters, the input power factor and the harmonics of the input and the output currents vary with the output frequency. A digital simulation of an idealized three-phase to single-phase converter is used to predict the harmonic content of the input and the output currents. The results thus obtained can be used to design the input and the output filters to reduce the undesired harmonics."
"Negative corona onset and sparkover voltages in air are shown to be affected by temperature, density, and the pipe-to-wire ratio of radii when using concentric cylindrical electrodes. Use of large wires at high temperatures demonstrates that onset of electrical discharge occurs at voltages significantly less than those predictable by earlier theory and that sparkover occurs at voltages considerably greater than those anticipated. Theory is presented to account for the results obtained."
"The use of static adjustable-frequency inverters for group motor drives is growing rapidly and will continue to do so. Since many applications are for critical loads or processes, it is desirable to provide individual motor or branch circuit fusing, such that a short circuit will be cleared without causing loss of power to the remaining motors on the inverter system. The proper coordination of this motor fuse with the inverter is not generally understood or discussed in the literature. This paper discusses and defines the basic nature of the problem. The results of extensive fuse coordination testing are presented for two different size inverters. Some useful conclusions are drawn as guidelines for proper motor fuse selection in the general case."
"This paper outlines experience gained over the past six years in the use of adjustable-frequency power inverters for industrial applications. Expected performance factors such as frequency and voltage accuracy, reliability, and flexibility are discussed. The characteristics important for proper performance are noted and comparisons with rotating type drives are made in the areas of installation, performance, and maintenance. In conclusion, future trends for the adjustable-frequency inverter are discussed."
"An equipment is presented for speed control of three-phase squirrel-cage induction motors supplied through a thyristor converter directly from the mains (the European 50-Hz system) by controlling the frequency and voltage magnitude. Thus a continuous speed control system is achieved, corresponding to a frequency range of from 2.5 to 85 Hz. Speed control is at a constant torque, up to the motor frequency rating (50 Hz), and at a constant power over this frequency. The system configuration is described, a brief analysis of the control loop parameter adjustment is given, and the experimental results are discussed. Finally, the general characteristics of the method are presented."
"The stages of development of inverters with forced commutation up to the megawatt range are described. The significant circuit designs such as capacitor turnoff, feedback diodes, and commutation inductances are already known from the mercury-arc and thyratron era. With the development of inverter-type thyristors today, inverters up to several hundred kilowatts can be realized for speed control of ac motors."
"Inverters and converters with large power output capabilities are presently being operated at frequencies above the audible band. The advantages of reduction in size and the elimination of audible noise have given designers the incentive to increase the frequency of operation of inverters and converters to the limit of the capabilities of available power transistors."
"The low-speed efficiency of an induction motor is improved by rectifying slip-frequency power, inverting this to line frequency, and injecting it back into the supply directly (line feed-back) or through auxiliary stator windings (stator feedback). Torque-speed curves then have the nature of a variable-speed drive. The low power factor and nonsinusoidal supply current of the line feedback connection are improved by use of the stator feed-back method but the improvement of efficiency is then much less. Line feedback with a two-phase induction motor eliminates the need for a variable control voltage source."
"Modern synthetic fibers require considerable quantities of closely controlled heat applied in several unusual mechanical forms in order to obtain their desirable characteristics."
"Devices used to measure force (or torque) with great accuracy have become increasingly popular as products and testing requirements have become more complex. The strain gauge based transducer has proven to be an excellent device with which to make these force measurements combining high stiffness, high accuracy, long life, and an easily handled electrical output adaptable to a wide variety of readout instruments."
"Problems encountered in handling and magnetizing large ceramic magnet structures have dictated the construction of a 100 000-joule impulse magnetization system. The system discharges stored energy of a capacitor bank into a work coil which surrounds the ceramic material. System parameters are deliberately chosen to produce an oscillatory circuit, but \"crowbarring\" diodes keep current from reversing. The diodes used are matched for forward voltage drop at high current. Other circuit elements are standard components."
"Because of the phenomenal growth of underground power distribution, the economics of using polyethylene or cross-linked polyethylene insulated aluminum conductors has gained wide acceptance. With polyethylene or cross-linked polyethylene insulated conductors, however, the techniques of splicing and terminating differ from conventional paper insulated cables to a degree which requires the reeducation of the cable splicer."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract-The problem of the reliability of electric supply and operation is a very complex problem involving the generation of electric power, its distribution, and the operation of electric driven mechanisms at power stations and consumers. This paper describes various means used in the U.S.S.R. to improve reliability of power supply and those measures introduced to improve reliability of consumers at short time interruptions of power supply. Due to the growth of generator and motor ratings, new problems in improving reliability arise. Problems in future improvement of reliability are listed."
"The Indian cement industry has shown remarkable growth, and under the fourth Five-Year Plan, by the end of 1971, it is expected that the annual production capacity will be approximately 25-26 million tons. The available limestone reserves, the main raw material, are estimated to be about five billion tons. The principal fuel, coal, is also available. Both dry and wet manufacturing processes are adopted. Cement making machinery and electrical motors and control gears are also being manufactured in India. Marketing and sales are handled through the State Cement Corporation; prices are controlled. India, though the second largest country in the world, is the poorest of the nations. In spite of this, India's record of economic development under the Five-Year Plan is satisfactory."
"The result of the development of a thyristor system which has several excellent characteristics applied to electric rolling stock for improvement of its performance is reported. The feasibility of superhigh-speed driving of rolling stock is discussed."
"Recent developments in high-performance variable-speed induction motor drive systems offer the possibility of wide applications. The expected decline in cost of semiconductor switching devices in coming years will make such drives economically compatible with dc and ac commutator machines for variable-speed applications."
"Now that development of brushless excitation has overcome the brush sparking and slip ring maintenance problem, industry can use large horsepower synchronous motors on its drives. These motors offer advantages in low starting currents with high starting torques, and the ability to supply reactive kVA to the plant system if desired."
"Medium-voltage power cables are manufactured and inspected to rigid specifications based on designs of proven reliability. Trouble-free service can be expected provided the proper cable is chosen for the application and correct installation procedures have been followed."
"Modem cement plants require an ever increasing sensitivity toward the application of large synchronous motors. Choosing the correct drive, based on load requirements, necessitates a thorough investigation of power availability and its effect on starting, acceleration, and pull-in characteristics of the motor. Also of concern is how these characteristics can be altered by design; or by the installation of auxiliary equipment, which may improve conditions not totally possible by design alone."
"A reactor-controlled rectifier drive is another type of adjustable speed static drive used extensively for large cement kilns. The characteristics required of a modem kiln drive and the author's experience with a 600-hp one, installed at the Riverside Cement Plant, Crestmore, Calif., are described."
"The operation and design characteristics of a reactor-controlled rectifier drive are described and it is compared with the eddy-current coupling and thyristor-controlled types."
"A great deal of confusion exists as to the waveshapes of the voltage and current presented to the dc load from a 3-and six-controllable-element ac-powered motor control. Of more importance is the question of the effect of these waveshapes on the operation of the dc motor load and on the ac system feeding the motor control. Of particular significance is the effect of the discontinuous current caused by the controlled rectifiers on the measurable power factor of the ac supply feeding the motor control. The intent of this paper is to present a simplified explanation of these effects and their significance."
"The glass industry prefers mechanical or hydraulic control systems over electrical control systems. This choice is often based on previous experiences where electrical controls have shown low reliability and high maintenance cost when exposed to the heat, light, dirt, sand, broken glass, and rapid temperature shifts found in glass plants. The special problems of rotating glass machines are presented. Such machines are indexing, continuous rotation, lathe type, conveyor chain driven, etc. In rotary machines glass is cut, pressed into shapes, sealed to other glasses, sealed to metal, it is exhausted to achieve a vacuum or a special gas atmosphere is created. Into these machines go electric motors, actuators, valves, transformers, relays, switches, and transducers."
"Steady progress in temperature control of glass container lehrs has been made since the early days of glass manufacture. Early control methods are discussed and problems are described which prompted the development of improved control systems. Requirements of modern glass container lehrs are defined and a temperature control system is suggested which helps lehrs to possess the best characteristics of modern heat processing equipment."
"Numerous auxiliary fuel explosions in recovery boiler furnaces have caused heavy losses of life and property. Combustion safeguard systems involve a complex, exacting assemblage of electronic safety interlock control systems. Success demands the involvement of qualified electrical and electronics engineers in their development, application, testing, and maintenance. Environmental moisture, corrosion, vibration, and mechanical hazards make special electrical applications necessary. A successful safeguard system will take shutdown action without fail when monitored conditions deviate from preestablished safe limits, but high-quality systems for reliability are essential because competitive operation cannot tolerate frequent nuisance outages."
"An original method of predicting the resistance-force diagram of a particular contact configuration is presented. Mathematical theory utilizes the true stress-strain diagram in tension or compression to predict the slope of the linear-force diagram. The position of this slope is then determined by measuring contact resistance and the applied contact force at that resistance. The metals to be studied are fine silver and copper."
"In order to improve the reliability of welds used in satellite construction, a new welding machine has been developed. This welding machine consists of a set of storage batteries to supply current, a bank of transistor switches to regulate the magnitude and duration of the current, and a commercial welding head. The new welder produces the following pulse characteristics: 1) a pulse whose current and duration can be independently controlled to a high degree of accuracy, 2) a pulse whose current remains very close to its predetermined value regardless of changes in resistance in the weld being made, 3) a pulse which is constant for identical settings from day-to-day and from machine-to-machine."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A framework of increasing impetus is established for control regulation and enforcement. The progression of air pollution control from early in-plant control of the working environment to community recognition of air pollution and black smoke control is traced. Background information on the present state of pollution control in the cement industry is given. A prognosis is presented of what is needed for futute vigilant operation and maintenance of pollution control."
"With regard to the classification of hazardous areas and the selection of appropriate electric equipment, there are discrepancies between the electrical codes of various countries and their interpretation. Work on intemational standardization of constructional requirements of apparatus is proceeding. However, there is no common opinion as to what type of equipment protection should be applied under specific circumstances. This is due to the fact that these circumstances are merely qualitative concepts. An attempt is made to base the selection on a quantitative approach by using a mathematical model supported by the probability theory."
"The substitution of electric energy for human energy and the dynamic growth of environmental control will greatly increase the temperature (high) sensitive loads of the nation's electric utilities causing the summer maximum demand to greatly exceed the winter. This difference in seasonal demand creates a major opportunity for the electric utility to expand its sales in existing markets and penetrate new markets for the economic benefit of its shareholders and customers."
"Equipment malfunctions caused by electrical noise transients have costly consequences. This unacceptable economic drain dictates that effective programs and practices be established to eliminate the adverse effects of noise. The responsibility for noise control falls to three principal participants in the installation: the equipment builder, the installer, and the user. Each must assume his share of the responsibility. Of these three, the equipment builder has the decisive initiative. The degree of noise immunity enjoyed by the installation will largely be determined by his packaging, wiring, and installation recommendations."
"Electrical control signals transmitted between two points usually arrive more or less distorted by noise. If proper control action is to occur, the information contained in the signals must be recovered and the noise must be rejected. This recovery and rejection are accomplished by invoking the principle of contrast, discriminating between useful information and noise as a result of some characteristic difference between them. Various practical means to effect and employ such contrast are examined, and a number of selected examples are presented. The role of proper wiring layout and grounding is stressed. High level noise can do more than obscure information in a signal. A number of instances exist in which actual equipment damage has been caused by noise. A brief description, with specific illustrations follows."
"The development of solid-state control and switching has been a boom to the electrical and electronic circuit designer but has proved to be a problem to those concerned with the interconnection of the \"black box\" and its associated equipment. Careful attention given to proper wire selection and to installation procedures will largely eliminate that noise which might otherwise cause equipment failure."
"A definition of both dc and ac noise margin is presented and used to compare the noise sensitivity of various logic devices. For integrated circuit applications in very high-noise environments, a systematic design method is proposed that produces noise immune systems. The method, which is based on the flow table approach for sequential circuits, gives the location of a minimum number of slow gates or slow-down networks, while critical race conditions are easily identified and eliminated."
"High-performance dc drive systems are often affected by mechanical characteristics such as torsional vibrations, backlash, and disturbances generated by misalignment, unbalance, or pulsating loads. The seriousness of the effect and the means available to reduce it are dependent on the responsiveness of the drive system. In general, the system must be made either responsive enough to counteract the mechanical characteristic or sluggish enough to ignore it. If this modification of the system response is impractical, the mechanical characteristics and/or the drive characteristics must be modified until an acceptable compromise can be achieved."
"The rapidly developing field of adjustable frequency control of ac motors represents more than just the evolution of a technology for solving old problems in a different way. More importantly, it is bringing into being a power output element capable of doing new jobs and of dramatically simplifying many jobs that have been done in the past with considerable complexity and hardware and not very well. A key to its promise lies in its basic nature which is inherently more digital than analog and therefore capable of being readily integrated into digital systems and of interfacing easily with those sources of digital signals such as thumbwheels, digital tachometers, encoders, tape readers, and process computers which abound in modem industrial systems."
"In oil refining and petrochemical industries, more and more electric motors are being used for various drives such as pumps, compressors, cooling fans, etc. In order for the electric motors to be competitive with other drives, such as turbines, diesel engines, etc., high reliability of the electric motors must be maintained. Directly heating the motor winding with a low voltage system when it is not in operation, coupled with automatic control, will increase its reliability and extend its service life."
"The primary considerations involved in cable protection are presented along with some methods of applying the protection. The proper selection and rating (derating) of cables is as much a part of cable protection as the application of the short-circuit and overcurrent protection devices. The whole scheme of protection is based on a cable rating which is matched to the environment and operating conditions. Methods of assigning these ratings are discussed"
"Downtime caused by electrical equipment breakdown or cable faults can often be substantially reduced by the use of highvoltage dc testing as a maintenance tool. The relative merits of ac versus dc testing, general principles of dc testing, types of tests, methods of performing the actual tests, and interpreting the results are explained. The value of insulation resistance measurements and their relationship to testing is discussed. Safety precautions are also given."
"Dynamic characteristics of rotating drive trains in reversing hot mills are discussed. Linear reactions of a classical spring-mass mechanical system and nonlinear reactions of a mill drive train were studied by field tests and analytical computations. Meaningful approaches are offered by these studies to many mechanical problems which have been hitherto undefined."
"Energy for glass melting is usually obtained from combustion of oil or gas, but in recent years electric heating has also been used for high tonnage production. Many reasons have been advanced for justifying a choice of energy source. Tradition, state of technology, and cost are the usual considerations, but particular conditions such as glass composition or production scheduling sometimes influence the decision."
"This study was undertaken to investigate the combined operating characteristics of low-voltage thermostats and relays when controlling different types of in-space electric heating systems in the test room of the Electric Space Conditioning Institute (ESCI). It is a sequel to the similar study of the performance of line-voltage therinostats reported in an earlier paper.1"
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Although several countries that have long been associated with chemical and petroleum industries have developed recommendations for safe electrical practices in what have usually become known as \"hazardous locations,\" internationally active operators are still troubled by the divergence of approach in these recommendations."
"Safety and reliability of electric distribution systems depend on many factors, including proper grounding. Correct functioning of ground fault relays depends on carefully designed busway housings and conduit connections. Busway housings are recommended as the preferred equipment grounding means because they achieve a low voltage drop value with little danger of electric shock. Eleven specific suggestions are made in an effort to improve the safety and reliability of low-voltage systems."
"This paper describes General Electric's new solid-state analog and digital gas turbine control, protection, and sequential system. It outlines the functional objectives and elaborates on the design philosophy applied to obtain maximum starting and running reliability, while maintaining a very high degree of fail safeness for the prime mover. It shows in graph and diagrammatic form the basic functions to be performed and schematically how these functions are accomplished. It describes and shows the physical arrangement of the system. The qualification program and operating experience to date are outlined."
"As a part of the nation's vast pipeline industry, Mobil Pipe Line Company provides common carrier transportation for United States oil enterprises. A major portion of the Mobil pipeline system is controlled via microwave radio and supervisory control equipment from the dispatching center in Dallas, Tex."
"Use of computer control in the operation of production facilities has expanded rapidly in the past few years. Standard Oil Company of California completed its lastest such project, the automation of platforms Hope and Heidi in the Santa Barbara Channel, in mid 1967. The equipment, which uses an 8K computer control program together with a supervisory control system, permits unattended operation of the remote facilities. This paper discusses the project design details, startup, and operating history, emphasizing both hardware and software aspects of the system. Two unique operating routines, computed well-test sequences, and leak detection to test manifolds, are discussed in detail. Based on the Hope-Heidi experience and background from previous projects of a similar nature, the authors discuss their philosophy of automation. The needs for user and vendor coordination of their system responsibilities and thorough documentation are defined. Emphasis is placed on the advisability of forming a user hardware-software team to handle system engineering and programming \"in-house.\" Particular importance is placed on the specification phase of a process-control project and the need to extract detailed technical data from the vendors in the bidding phase to ensure optimum and economic selection of a system to do a particular job. The discussion of software specifications and the concept of a user team to implement the project should prove useful to the oil producing industry. The concepts discussed are, however, applicable to the implementation of any industry's computer control program."
"The usage of flammable gases and liquids in industry and research is rapidly increasing. The problems of applying electrical equipment in these situations have also increased. A portion of this is due to the larger and larger amounts of hydrogen and other substances, where suitable explosion proof equipment is not available, that are being utilized."
"Implementation of the float glass process requires continuous control of the glass ribbon from the molten state through the solid state. The areas which present the greatest challenge to the drive manufacturer are the tin bath and the annealing lehr. Here the glass is changing state continuously, requiring the drive systems to provide precise speed, speed ratio, and position control. To provide this control, while maintaining flexibility and versatility for future process changes, solid-state powered dc drives with digital speed control were chosen. The remainder of the process, including the furnace material input, cutting section, and capping conveyor sections, was automated using more conventional drive systems."
"Rapid growth of pipeline and refinery industries, especially where power systems are \"weak\" and equipment is fully automated, makes it frequently necessary to start large electric motor drives under adverse conditions. Voltage may sag, and motor torque available for acceleration goes down as voltage squared. Or the motor may have to start a fully loaded pump. Understanding these conditions is essential to finding solutions."
"Factual information is presented to show that rerate T-frame motors offer users substantially more value than motors of prior vintage. The gain is not alone a matter of size-weight reduction nor the obvious economic one of avoiding, in industrial ac motors, the inflationary price spiral that generally afflicts American manufactured products. Gains are also evident in: insulation life expectancy, bearing load capability or bearing minimum fatigue life, thermal margin in the bearing lubricant. Through improved computerized design techniques, these gains are achieved without sacrifice in motor efficiency; design level of power factor is slightly lower for T-frame motors, but in-service power factor is generally improved over previous U-frame motors because the T-frame units are designed to a more realistic voltage standard."
"A dc to ac, variable voltage, variable frequency, three-phase, external impulse commutated inverter, rated at 200 kVA, is described that controls the speed of an induction motor that is suitable for traction applications. The inverter is supplied from a variable voltage dc source for the load circuit and a fixed voltage dc source for the commutation circuit. Isolation between the two sources is provided by a high-frequency pulse transformer. The output ac voltage is controlled from 0 to 250 volts; the output frequency is controlled from 4 to 400 Hz. The load is a low-slip, 12 000 r/min induction motor with a continuous rating of 15 hp over a 10:1 speed range, and 60 hp over a 2:1 speed range. The theory of operation and design equations for the inverter power circuit, the design and construction of the motor, and the test results of the inverter-motor combination are presented."
"In 1967 the major electrical machinery manufacturers published new temperature rise limits for standard ratings of large induction motors. These limits have been proposed to the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association (NEMA) for consideration as an industry standard for these machines. This paper outlines the nature of these changes, the reasoning behind them, their effects on machine design, and their effects on motor application by the user."
"The reliability of rubber mill control is achieved by the recognition of the operational and environmental needs of the equipment. Mature design, quality of material and workmanship, and ease of maintenance are intrinsic to the nature of a reliable product. This paper defines reliability, discusses the need to achieve it, and demonstrates its measurement and attainment in the process of preparing a product for manufacture. Practical examples are provided to demonstrate how the selection of basic materials, components, enclosures, and circuit arrangements enhance reliability."
"Recent developments in equipment for protection of series capacitors, damping of resonance, and limitation of fault currents provide a useful means for reducing voltage drop and flicker when induction motors are started or suddenly loaded, and to improve operating conditions of a circuit during normal conditions by decreasing voltage regulation and by reducing short-circuit current during faults on the circuit. These recent developments also include equipment for suppressing ferro-resonance and subsynchronous resonance, and protective equipment to prevent service interruptions because of internal failure in the series capacitor assembly."
"This paper describes the circuit design used for the application of power semiconductors to the control of dc power in a traction motor system. Type SPM designates a series field traction motor SCR control, providing smooth tractive effort control in motoring and in dynamic braking of 500-1000 hp (continuously rated) rapid transit car drives. Thyristors are switched by a feedback current control system utilizing a fixed-frequency variable pulse width technique. Armature series reactors and line filter requirements are minimized by a multistage scheme. Both armature and field currents are modulated for full speed range control. Third rail system extreme voltage transients are accommodated by system features. Development and tests of sample equipments on the Chicago Transit Authority system are described. This demonstrator became the first semiconductor chopper propulsion equipment to be placed in revenue service in the United States. Service began in September 1967 on the Chicago Transit Authority's Skokie Line. A similar 1000-volt equipment was supplied San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit for test track evaluation."
"As the petroleum and petrochemical industries have grown in size and diversity of products, their need for more efficient methods of process heating has also grown. A wider span of temperatures plus the need for better and more automatic control of the process has paved the way for the wider use of electricity for process heating."
"This paper begins with a discussion of the different modes of operation of a zener diode and continues with a study of its behavior during voltage transient conditions. A critique of the accepted electrical analogies of the thermal circuit of a zener diode is conducted, and the analysis of the thermal response of a zener diode to a power pulse is made in a highly simplified thermal model. A brief review of basic semiconductor knowledge is included as a frame of reference for the discussion of the causes of zener diode failure. The concept of zener diode failure produced by a high rate of rise of the junction temperature is introduced."
"Ozone generation is one of the most important limitations in the design of an efficient electrostatic precipitator for use in air-conditioning systems."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A specific interpretation of the new American National Standard application guides for ac high-voltage circuit breakers, as an aid to obtaining uniform results when making short-circuit studies of industrial-plant power systems is described. A technique is introduced for interpolation when the major sources of industrial-plant short-circuit current include both local generators and a tie from the utility."
"The wide usage of the silicon-controlled rectifier in high-power applications is due, to a large degree, to the inherent overload capability of thyristors. Motor drive applications, for example, are characterized by complex load duty cycles and short-time overloads when accelerating the motor. Welding cycles, zero-crossfiring power control, and pulsewidth-modulated inverters are other examples where the overload capability of the silicon-controlled rectifier is important. The many types of overload conditions that can occur in thyristor applications are defined and the procedures and equations utilized are described. The complexity of such equations dictate that even with the utility of the electronic computer some approximations are required. The accuracy of these approximations is analyzed and the range of reasonable accuracy established. Due to the large number of variables of thyristor overload ratings the presentation of overload capability curves is difficult. The presentation of short-time, occasional, and complex overload ratings independent of ambient temperature, as presented, is a significant step in providing the industry with accurate and useful overload information on thyristors."
"A most vital part of the electric system in large commercial and industrial buildings is the service entrance. Unfortunately it is located in a \"no-man's land\" between the electric power company's system and the low-voltage system. Much better understanding of the disadvantages and danger in providing a single 6000-18 000-ampere service entrance into a building is needed by electric power company engineers, low-voltage system consultants, and code-making authorities. Some codes and authorities are still insisting on a single service entrance into a building with little consideration of the possibility of loss of power to the entire building due to an arcing burndown or of the problem of high operating temperatures in these special high-current services. This paper shows how, in one case, arcing protection for the service entrance busway and switchboard was provided by using a groundfault relay to trip four network protectors. Six recommendations are made for improving the safety and reliability of future service entrances."
"The functioning of a system when energy in rotation motors are used to provide continuous operation during a momentary failure of ac input power is investigated. The system includes an ac power input, a dc rectifier, and an inverter which normally provides ac power to high-inertia induction motors. During a failure of the ac input, the frequency of the inverter is reduced so that the motors can transfer their rotational energy back to the dc bus through the inverter. When ac power returns, the system returns to its original condition."
"An efficient method for achieving continuously variable speed control of slip ring induction motors with fan-type load is described in which the motor slip is controlled by a thyristor converter. By means of motor winding tap changes, the rating of the thyristor converter is reduced to a fraction, typically one third, of the motor. The reactive kVA associated with the converter is similarly reduced and the system full-load power factor is ideally 0.95. The motor starting current is controlled to be about one third of rated current. The scheme enables the initial cost of solid-state speed controls for large motors to be competitive with existing methods and additionally offers greater reliability, efficiency, and versatility, as well as reduced operating costs. The techniques discussed are especially suitable for motors ranging from tens to thousands of horsepower."
"As an electromechanical transducer, the squirrel-cage induction motor is simple and rugged. With variable-frequency inverters it is possible to operate an induction motor over a wide range of speeds, supplying a constant horsepower load. Performance is a function of sizing of motors and sizing of inverters. These relationships are explored on a fundamental basis."
"Renewed interest in electric automobiles has spawned a large number of publications describing various vehicle propulsion techniques. Most of the motor controller schemes have been described as solid state and lossless. In this context, the term lossless is appropriate since it differentiates the switching type of motor controller from the dissipative variety. The latter controllers employ a matrix of current-limiting resistors for armature control."
"Today's trend toward concentration of large power requirements for the petroleum, chemical, and fertilizer complexes and the increasing installation, operating, and maintenance costs require new ideas, equipment, materials, and methods. The reliability, simplicity, and maintenance advantages of this distribution system are detailed. Particular reference is made to the three basic design features, pole-line structures, static trip devices of low-voltage switch gear, and the preformed stress cones used in terminating the 15-and 5-kV cables."
"The use of probability techniques to calculate the reliability of any given system is becoming more commonplace in the electric-power industry. This paper demonstrates how reliability calculations, using basic interruption data and elementary arithmetic operations, can influence system design."
"A description of the design and performance of high-power thyristor inverters for uninterruptable power systems is presented. These inverters have been designed to provide precisely regulated and continuous ac electrical power for critical loads, such as real-time data processing computers, air route traffic control centers, and industrial process control equipment. High reliability, over 80 000 hours MTBF, is achieved by utilizing a parallel redundant system configuration. Systems have been designed with ratings of up to 2000 kVA. Typical instantaneous voltage transient limits are plus 10 and minus 10 percent. Frequency tolerance is plus or minus one-half percent. Total harmonic distortion is less than 5-percent rms."
"High power inverter systems are used in a variety of applications and for a variety of reasons. Consideration of some of the basic characteristics and methods of application is required to ensure a satisfactory system, both from the operational and economical points of view. This paper attempts to clarify system application and point out any side benefits which are available with special reference to inverters operating in parallel."
"Measurements of electric arc parameters are normally made with canventional electromechanical instruments with the tacit assumption that the measurements are mean values. This may be a close approximation in the case of dc arcs supplied from a battery or from a rectified and smoothed dc source. It is, however, not true for dc arcs in plasma torches, arcs supplied with unsmoothed dc, ac arcs used for welding, or in arc furnaces where effects due to nonlinear variation of arc voltage with arc current, sudden random fluctuations in arc voltage, and high frequency components of the arc voltage occur. Electricity supply authorities use electrodynamic instruments to measure power and kVA in arc loads which, as arc fumaces, are among the largest single loads in the country, again assuming that mean values are obtained in this way. Possible sources of error in these assumptions which may have important effects on process control and operating costs, are examined. Some methods of measurement are shown to be subject to errors not normally appreciated, and are of little value, except for comparative purposes. Methods of minimizing errors are also considered."
"The major problems encountered in designing converters for capacitor charging are discussed. A design approach is outlined for designing an inductive storage (blocking oscillator) type converter and a design example given. Particular emphasis is placed on problems associated with using low-voltage nickel cadmium cells to power the converter."
"Vapor phase cooling of semiconductor circuit components using a sealed heat exchanger with natural convection to air can be an effective static method of heat removal. The salient characteristic of heat transport through the flow of vapor can be combined with the capability of \"spreading\" waste heat energy uniformly within a compact condenser of large surface area. An additional capability, exists for locating the condenser in a position which is thermally remote from the circuit arrangement. A heat exchanger designed to exploit these features can result in a more compact equipment arrangement, and one which will dissipate heat energy at a lower overall thermal resistance than is possible with conventional static cooling systems."
"The authors point out that today's building environments require careful planning prior to actual design and construction. They discuss the problems brought about by the use of adequate up to date lighting levels as related to air conditioning and heating, and how the computer has been applied to solutions. Of particular importance is the use of the computers to study alternatives prior to actual design."
"This paper provides guidance for proper selection of transformers by type to meet various operating conditions encountered in the petroleum industry. Transformer characteristics, utilization of force cooling, loading transformers by temperature, and benefits to be gained by proper maintenance are discussed. Observation of these guidelines can result in economic and most efficient use of power transformers for the petroleum industry."
"In the operation of ship-to-shore or ship-to-dock oil handling facilities, the spillage of petroleum products can and frequently will occur as a normal part of the operation. The vapours of the spilled product, under certain conditions, can form a hazardous atmosphere which, when ignited, will lead to explosions and fires. One of the potential sources of ignition has long been recognized as arcs resulting from uncontrolled currents or from sparks resulting from uncontrolled potentials. In order to avoid, minimize, or render harmless these currents and potentials, it has been the practice, at the product handling facilities, to metallically interconnect and/or connect to earth the handling facilities. Terminology, stray current and potential phenomena, present bonding practices, and policies as carried out by a number of petroleum product handling companies or as required by regulatory bodies and Harbor Boards are reviewed."
"The stability criteria for controlled electroheat processes, i.e., plastic extruders, arc furnaces, induction furnaces, plasma torches, fluidized beds, etc., is studied. A previous geometric approach was unilateral, in that stability criteria could be evaluated if the electroheat gain and the controller sensitivity were known, but the reverse procedure was not possible. Subsequent experience has shown that this lack of bilateralism was unacceptable. Now the earlier geometric method is extended so that these stability criteria can be evaluated bilaterally. This covers almost all stability evaluations encountered in design-office and on-site situations. The presentation is practical, rather than mathematical, and is intended for the professional engineer concerned with the practical electroheat control problems of industry."
"In electroheat processes such as induction furnaces, arc furnaces, radiant furnaces, plasma torches, fluidized beds, etc., that are usually discontinuously controlled (because of the large power ratings involved) a great deal of confusion has existed as to the effect of derivative signals in the primary feedback loop. This has resulted in empirical design rules for the derivative feedback in controllers for such processes. An analysis of the effect of derivative feedback upon the performance indices of such electroheat processes is presented. Methods of evaluating these indices for various combinations of command and derivative feedback are given, and the boundaries are clearly defined for the process instability that results from excessive derivative feedback. It is shown that the well-known cycling characteristic display is inadequate for conveying to the practicing engineer the effect of derivative feedback. Two new displays have been derived that clearly show the effect of command and derivative feedback upon the process performance. Finally, the optimum derivative feedback conditions are given for the typical electroheat process. Mathematical derivations have been avoided, and the presentation is intended for the professional engineer engaged in industrial electroheat control."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The important considerations involved in the protection of various electrical supply line circuits to consumer loads are presented. Supply system disturbances are first reviewed as to type, duration, magnitude, and cause. The sensitivity of various kinds of consumer loads are listed and analyzed. Methods of minimizing the effect of power supply system disturbances are given. These corrective measures include proper selection of 1) power equipment and switching devices, 2) control circuit modifications, and 3) methods of service restoration. Types of available protective relay systems are grouped by location and six typical electrical supply system protective schemes are described and illustrated."
"A method of analysis for three-phase inverters is described. The method is based on Park vectors [1], [2] and predicts the waveforms of inverter quantities under various load conditions. The procedure discussed can be used to determine the commutation sequence of a pulsewidth modulated inverter. The current distribution of the inverter can be obtained from the current vector. The vectors of the inverter voltage and currents are determined for passive R-L and R-C loads. Oscillograms of the current vectors are shown for different loads."
"Three-phase inverters have different modes of operation, while the load power factor angle varies over a 3600 range. A method of analysis is described which makes it possible to find these modes of operation. The method is based on the use of Park vectors. These vectors-generally used in the analysis of three-phase ac machines-are composed of the instantaneous values of a three-phase system. Voltage and current vectors of a three-phase inverter are used to find the current distribution of the inverter. An analysis is given of all the possible conditions of an inverter connected to an active load that can produce any load power factor from zero leading to zero lagging. Some special modes of operation are discussed in detail. Ranges of load power factor angles having different types of commutations are obtained. A control method is shown which makes it possible to obtain effective voltage regulation at the full range of load power factor at a reduced commutation frequency."
"The paper describes a practical solid-state phase and frequency converter. Three-phase input power is converted to single-phase power of higher variable frequency output power, without the use of a dc link. A brief description of the circuit is given, followed by simplified theoretical considerations and actual experimental results."
"The computer is often utilized in a less than ideal environment, but where an inversely proportional reliability is required. In Vietnam, Air Force planes are routed, controlled, and logistically dispersed by computer-processed military data. Soon civilian aircraft in our home skies will be similarly monitored-by necessity, not choice. Process-control applications are making possible efficiencies and productivity previously unattainable. Considering our dependency on the machine, Dr. Elmer Engstrom recently said, \"A central processor which becomes disabled can, in fact, disable the functioning of an entire company.\""
"In any forced commutated inverter scheme, a certain amount of energy is \"trapped\" at the end of the commutation interval. It is desirable to minimize this level of trapped energy for best circuit component utilization. An input commutation circuit, suitable for single or three-phase inverter circuits, is introduced as a model. A mathematical analysis of the circuit yields expressions for circuit component values in terms of the load impedance at the instant of commutation. Optimizing procedures produce direct expressions for the components to yield the most efficient operation and minimum trapped energy."
"The power distribution system serving the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Holmdel, N. J., is described. Operation of the system is discussed with emphasis on reliability achieved with dual public utility feeders, and with primary and secondary selective load center design."
"Many considerations from location to breaker selection in the application of low-voltage unit substations in the cement industry are presented. Five basic topics are covered in the following order: general considerations, high-voltage section, transformer section, breaker section, and device coordination. Features of the new solid-state trip device now available on low-voltage circuit breakers plus coordination aspects of fault protection are also discussed. The material is presented in such a manner that it can be used as a check list when specifying low-voltage unit substations."
"The major problems of computer and instrumentation maintenance are discussed with the aim of reducing downtime. To achieve this goal the maintenance engineer must possess a thorough knowledge of all aspects of the computer and its operation."
"For a processing line consisting of m dc-motor-driven pinch roll pairs connected by a massless strip, a set of m - 1 algebraic equations has been derived to solve for the maximum tensions in the m-1 strip segments. The results are compared to the classical approach which consists of solving a system of simultaneous differential equations made up of m equations for motor characteristics and m-1 equations for strip characteristics."
"New temperature-control strategies become readily available with the small low-priced digital computer. These are outlined with emphasis upon established processes embodying years of empirical experience, so that the introduction of new temperature-control strategies must be gradual. In most processes time-shared control will be the first objective, so the effect of sampled control upon classical control techniques is examined. New stability evaluation techniques are presented as displays that can be used in the design of processes and their control systems. Computer compensation for offset and disturbance is presented in a manner that does not affect these stability evaluations. The presentation is intended for professional engineers concemed with the practical control problems of a complex industrial plant."
"The various elements of environmental control for electrical equipment rooms, motor rooms, and control rooms are discussed. Positive pressurization, air filtration, ventilating systems, fans, air conditioning, and air control devices are described, including design considerations and economic comparisons of equipment and systems currently available. Data comparing efficiencies, first cost, and maintenance requirements of air filtration systems are included. Ground rules are provided for comparing ventilation systems with air cooling systems for specific installations and for choosing between the various types of air cooling systems."
"The subject of automation as related to the conception of cement plants is described in the light of its application in new plants. The influence it might have on existing installations is explained."
"A portion of the high-inrush incident to starting of large synchronous motors can be supplied by static capacitors because of the low power factor of the inrush kVA. However, care must be exercised in application of the static capacitors so as to avoid harmful resonant conditions, overvoltage due to self excitation of the motor and the proper selection or sizing of equipment for a specific application. An installation in a cement plant of large synchronous grinding mill motors employing static capacitors for motor starting is reviewed. Some of the considerations in application are shown and results of operation are also shown."
"The construction of a modern-day cement plant is a significant undertaking involving the coordination of many resources to develop an operation that must be profitable for many years to come. One of the major investments associated with the construction of the plant is that related to the purchase of suitable control equipment. The development of a digital computer system from purchase to startup is described in this paper."
"The trend in cement manufacturing is to larger production units, central control, finer cements, and a broader range of cement fineness. The availability of a continuous sensor of cement fineness can help to alleviate problems which have been emphasized by these trends. A system for measuring specific surface of pulverized materials, especially finished cement, has been developed. This system, combining a fluidized blender and an automatic permeability sensor, gives promise of substantial benefit in optimization of production and quality in finish grinding of Portland cement."
"To faithfully reproduce waveforms of both high-forward current and high-speed reverse recovery current in a high-power three-phase bridge converter is a difficult task. Ordinary dc shunts, or fuses which are sometimes used as shunts, are too inductive to satisfactorily reproduce the reverse recovery current. Noninductive shunts are available but suffer from several serious disadvantages which are explained in the paper. A system is described which overcomes all of these difficulties. It uses specially designed miniature through-type CTs that have good frequency response from dc through several hundred kHz. Saturation by the dc component is avoided by a core resetting scheme. A circuit is also described which relieves the CT of its burden thereby permitting reproduction of short-circuit currents without CT saturation."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1969 IEEE Electromagnetic Compatibility Symposium Record."
"A one-year research program is reported concerning an intensive investigation into biological RF radiation hazards from high power, high frequency (HF) antennas. This program consisted of two major phases: the measurement of field strengths in the near vicinity of high power HF band antennas, and coordinated clinical irradiation studies using male albino Wistar rats as the test specimens. An extensive survey was made of the literature concerning other investigations of biological hazards from radio-frequency irradiation of men and laboratory animals. Past studies have been focussed on radiation hazards at radar frequencies, typically extending from 200 MHz to 10,000 MHz. The annual Tri-Service Conferences on Biological Effects of Microwave Radiation, culminating in the fourth conference in 1960, have brought forth valuable and definitive reports on research in UHF radar bands, which have provided useful guidelines and background information for the current investigation. Recent studies have also been reported concerning magnetic field effects at DC and low frequencies. Little relevant research on biological hazards in the HF band has been reported in the literature, although the USA Standards Institute has recently published a standard extending the microwave power density limit of 10 mw/cm2 to cover the frequency range from 100 GHz down to 10 MHz. This standard covers a portion of the HF band, but not all, and there is no evidence that it can properly be applied to the near zones of the antennas and transmission lines where the field measurements showed the highest intensities."
"The behavior of the human body in response to microwave irradiation is complex. The conversion of microwave energy into heat is a principal mode of damage to living organisms, especially to the eyes, but much recent research supports the view that non-thermal effects are substantive. Russian workers continue to report a wider variety of effects than American workers, and they are more concerned with the effect of microwave fields on information storage in living systems. This greater concern is reflected in the published Russian exposure limits, which are lower than the limits generally used in this country. Organizations whose personnel are exposed to microwave fields are urged to promulgate, and observe, suitable safety regulations."
"An extensive set of electric field intensity measurements were taken in and around a typical operating site. The purpose of the measurement program was to determine the effects of the local structure and local noise environment on the propagation and reception of narrowband signals. Test data were obtained between 31 kHz and 2 GHz. Signal intensity measurements were recorded near transmitting sources located within the structure, and signal and noise intensity data were taken remote from the sources along 18 different azimuthal radii out to distances of several hundred feet. Data presentations include total propagation loss and structural shielding effectiveness versus azimuth for each frequency, noise levels at each remote location versus frequency and radiated signal level required near the transmitter for the received signal to equal the noise at each remote site."
"The radio noise field is composed of naturally occurring emissions from atmospheric and galactic processes, man-made disturbances and thermal radiation from the local environment. Natural noise processes including thermal radiation contribute the dominant noise at the extremes of the radio spectrum in metropolitan environments but are superseded by man-made noise in the LF to UHF bands. The dominance of man-made noise in the center of the radio spectrum arises from coherent interference of entertainment, communication, and navigational equipment and the incoherent emissions of transportation, utility, industrial and commercial equipment. The source emission spectra and the propagation characteristics of the source-to-detector space control the noise intensity. The intensity of coherent noise is predictable from a knowledge of the number, location, modulation and carrier frequency of the sources and the physical properties and features of the transmission space. The intensity of incoherent interference is similarly dependent but complicated by being produced from statistically random processes. The prediction and ultimately the control of incoherent radio noise is yielding to analyses and measurements which combine examinations of the dominant individual source spectra and the composite spectrum of area noise sources. The multi-dimensional area signatures of composite, incoherent radio noise can be used to identify an area from observation points located throughout the local hemisphere."
"This paper describes the measured properties of the electromagnetic radiation from gap-type electrical discharges which occur on distribution lines and discusses some of the factors which affect these emissions. A discussion is given of the methods by which these waves are generated, of the measurement techniques and the findings of this investigation."
"Samples of the major types of integrated circuits were evaluated to determine their relative performance as electromagnetic interference (EMI) sources. A rating system which compares the performance of the different logic types as EMI sources is described in the paper, and a conclusion is made concerning the performance of digital logics as EMI sources."
"In ships the restrictions on aerial sites lead to the use of common aerial working systems, while below decks the concentration of large quantities of electrical and electronic equipment produces a high level of environmental noise. The combination results in severe interference problems, and the need for special precautions in system design and installation integrity. After briefly describing such a common aerial working system and the main precautions taken, the paper indicates that the performance depends to a great extent on the integrity of the aerial feeder systems. It shows how the difficulties of installation and maintenance have resulted in a change from the traditional lead sheathed co-axial cable to one with a convoluted copper outer. At the same time aerial lines within receiver offices were changed to braided co-axial cable and new aerial line filters and switches were designed for the system. Some measurements indicating the degree of screening effectiveness obtained in a ship installation are presented."
"The development of a Q multiplier device which operates in the UHF region is described. With this device, preselection bandwidths representing a Q of approximately 7,000 were achieved at 300 MHz. The high Q values are obtained with a relatively compact device. Operational results illustrate the application of this device for improved filtering of closely spaced signals."
"Requirements exist to improve airborne receiver reception under conditions of impulse interference produced by precipitation and atmospheric static. A new approach in communication receiver interference blanker circuitry was devised which overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of previously developed blankers. The all solid state limiter-blanker circuit developed comprise an independent \"black box\" which can be inserted between the antenna and RF input of any typical HF receiver. The technique, which can be adapted to lower and higher frequency bands, makes use of the spectral content of impulse static in discriminating between desired signals and impulsive noise. A squelch circuit operating on signal to noise ratio rather than the conventional AGC voltage method was also developed."
"The basic theory of a multiresonant filter is discussed. Such filters can greatly improve cosite compatibility when connected between transmitter-receivers and their antennas. The equivalence of several filter circuit design variations is illustrated. A simple quantitative equation permitting the calculation of insertion loss in terms of bandwidth and circuit Q is provided. A universal \"zero-loss\" response curve for a multiresonant filter is also shown."
"This paper presents the results of a research and development program launched by the Sprague Electric Company five years ago having a primary objective of furthering the state of the art of low frequency, low impedance (magnetic) shielded enclosure performance. The paper describes in detail the evaluation of shielded materials, compares several methods of measuring shielded effectiveness with theoretical performance, and details the development of ancillary devices. Discontinuities in shields such as doors, ventilation aperatures, filters, and other miscellaneous penetrations have always presented the weakest parts of shielded enclosures. This paper also treats the development of methods to improve the performance of such discontinuities to acceptable levels. Presented in graphical form is shielding information on various shield membranes and ancillary equipment -- usable as design guides to achieve a wide variety of performance requirements."
"An experimental verification of previous theoretical work on the diffusion of saturated regions in magnetic materials has been accomplished. The diffusion times for the saturated region in Hipernom® tubes have been measured for various exciting magnetic fields and pulse durations. The calculated and experimentally obtained diffusion times are in excellent agreement. Exciting pulse currents up to several thousand amperes have been impressed on the test samples which varied in thickness from 5 to 18 mils. Saturation diffusion times for a 6 mil tube varied from 6 to 0.3 µ sec. depending on the impressed magnetic field amplitude as predicted by the theory. Prior to punch through of the saturated region, little or no magnetic field leakage was detected in the interior of the test samples."
"It is the intent of this paper to present both a broad overview of the total field of interference prediction and an analysis of past and current results obtained from specific prediction efforts. The broad overview portion of the paper consists largely of a discussion of the philosophy and purpose behind interference prediction efforts. The format of this overview will be an analysis of current system and equipment level problem areas conducted to establish (1) the areas in which interference predictions provide useful results, (2) why such predictions are necessary, (3) the primary objectives of interference prediction efforts, (4) the major factors involved in constructing accurate prediction models, and (5) the need for evaluation efforts to support prediction results. An analysis of past and current interference prediction efforts will be presented from a critical, but constructive, point of view. The efforts analyzed will include those intended to model equipment emissions and susceptibility thresholds based on limited spectrum signature data; system models involving a source, antenna, propagation factors, siting effects, and a receptor; environmental models concerned with relatively large geographical areas populated with many emitter-receptor combinations; etc. Based on the purpose, objective, and need for interference prediction in a broad sense and the detailed analysis of specific prediction efforts, needed developments, and improvements for the future are presented."
"A mathematical model specifically for aircraft antenna-to-antenna electromagnetic interference analysis has been developed. Basically, the model consists of a two-level analysis: 1) frequency coincidence to indicate potential interference and 2) a detailed analysis involving power levels and receiver thresholds. A receiver and transmitter are selected from the input data, and their frequency bands are compared for coincidence. The frequency comparison includes the fundamental and significant harmonics as specified for the transmitter. If frequency coincidence is found, indicating potential interference, the worst-case power level at the receiver from the transmitter is computed using the shortest path along the aircraft surface. When the path is around the fuselage, allowance is made for shading (diffraction) effects. The power received is compared with the receiver threshold to obtain an EMI margin. Each case with an EMI margin above a specified value is listed in the computer output as are the frequencies involved and the computational method used. Margins are computed for each antenna combination of the two systems. This process is repeated for each transmitter and receiver on the aircraft. The method of analysis is presented with particular emphasis on the techniques used to obtain propagation paths and shading factors."
"Because of relatively large effective radiating area, interface wiring is often a prime source of interference radiation and pickup in electronic systems. This paper presents a technique which allows quantitative prediction of the radiation and susceptibility characteristics of open wires. The technique is particularly well suited to predicting performance in the radiated interference and radiated susceptibility test setups of interference specifications. Babcock and Sagasta presented useful data for the prediction of radiated interference in the test setups of MIL-I-6181D and MIL-I-11748B. Their data, however, did not show the effect of the diameter of the radiating wire, or the effect, in depth, of its height. In addition, their results could not be extended to modified test setups, for example, that of MIL-STD-462. The arrangement of the radiating wire over a ground plane, in typical EMC test setups, suggests the use of an electric dipole model for analysis. Use of this technique in accordance with the approach by Gerry was found to give very conservative results. In order to apply his technique to the problem where the radiating wire and antenna are of dimensions comparable with their separation, several refinements in his approach are required. In particular, it is necessary to represent the wire as an array of dipoles and to average their effect over the length of the receiving antenna."
"The objective of the work described in this paper is to relate signal-to-noise ratio and signal-to-interference ratio at the input of a receiver employing a quantized pulse position demodulator to the decision errors occurring at the output. This paper describes the receiver model and discusses the assumptions made in its formulation. Assumptions concerning the description of desired signals, interfering signals and random disturbances are also described. On the basis of these, an expression for the receiver output signal-to-noise is obtained which has the form (S/N) o 1+ A where (S/N)i is the input signal-to-noise ratio (S/I)i is the input signal-to-interference ratio A and D are constants related to the receiver model and desired signal description B is a constant involving the description of the noise C is a constant for a particular interfering signal description. The interfering signals for which the constant C is presented in this paper are: a single CW, two CW signals, a pulse position modulated signal similar to the desired signal, a double side-band amplitude modulated signal, a single side-band amplitude modulated signal, narrow-band and wide-band frequency modulated signals, and PCM-FSK type interferers."
"This article starts with a description of fieldstrength measurements which are usual in the frequency range above 30 MHz and mentions the disadvantages of fieldstrength measurements and the development of alternative indoor methods to measure interference level. It gives a survey of the fieldstrength substitution methods, the earth current method, the terminal voltage methods and the absorbing clamp method."
"This paper describes a technique to measure insertion loss of filters in a 5 ohm system over an extended frequency range and under full load from 14 KHz to 10 GHz. This technique required development of extended range buffer networks and electromagnetic shielding requirements in excess of 120 db. Techniques have been developed for measuring high power, high attenuation, rf powerline filters in impedances that sometimes approximate actual operating impedances. Present specifications and standards require updated and improved measurement techniques. The frequency range of present measurements under full-rated load is limited to 100 KHz through 20 MHz and the circuit impedance is kept at 50 ohms. This provides inadequate and misleading information about the performance of the filter under actual operating conditions. By use of techniques described in this paper, meaningful measurements that simulate actual operating conditions can be achieved. It further describes insertion loss measurements that were performed on a filter measured in a 5 ohm system, under full load conditions, over the extended frequency range from 14 KHz to 10 GHz by employing extended frequency range buffer networks."
"Magnetic field susceptibility testing methods are defined in present DOD electromagnetic compatibility test standards. This paper presents an alternate test method and describes a Magnetic Field Susceptibility Test Set which will greatly simplify the testing and data reduction and thereby reduce the test time without degradation of accuracy."
"It has been well documented that measurements made in shielded enclosures can differ significantly from corresponding measurements made in the open-field. At frequencies above one or two hundred MHz these differences can be attributed to the existence of standing waves in shielded enclosures caused by multipath reflections from enclosure walls, ceilings and floors. However, large differences in corresponding open-field and shielded enclosure measurements also have been observed at frequencies well below 100 MHz, where the dimensions of most conventional enclosures are small enough compared to wavelength to preclude any significant conventional multipath interference effects. This paper discusses the results of an investigation into the causes and effects of these observed measurement inaccuracies in shielded enclosures at frequencies below 100 MHz. A preliminary theory is postulated which accounts for the observed inaccuracies in terms of a near-field measurement effect which is present in a shielded enclosure environment and absent in the corresponding open-field environment. All shielded enclosure and open-field measurement data collected to date has been found to be consistent with the postulated theory. A shielded enclosure measurement technique which is based on minimizing this near-field enclosure effect is discussed. Shielded enclosure measurement results obtained using this technique have been found to differ only slightly from corresponding open-field results."
"One of the problems associated with power line filter specification is adequate knowledge of the source impedance into which the filter should be designed. In order to establish an average impedance with high and low bounds, a number of measurements have been made at various Navy installations. Results at present indicate that the average source appears inductive and the impedance magnitude varies from 2.0 ohms at 4 KHz to 10 ohms at 90 KHz. These values are based on data taken at 9 locations at 33 discrete frequencies. The procedure used to determine source impedances utilizes an adaptation of the \"three voltage\" method. A known impedance is placed in series with the desired impedance and a source voltage tuned to the frequency of interest. The magnitude of the impedance is found by comparison of the voltages across the known and unknown impedances. Phase information is obtained by construction of a vector diagram made up of the voltages measured across the known and unknown impedances and the source voltage. Absolute values of impedance depend on the accuracy of the voltage determination. Noise voltages are held to a minimum by use of 0.1 octave bandwidth from 4 KHz to 25 KHz, 100 Hz bandwidth from 25 KHz to 160 KHz and 3.5 KHz bandwidths over the remainder of the range to 500 KHz. Further, 60 Hz rejection is augmented by use of a 43 db notch filter prior to the input of the tuned voltmeter."
"Present EMC military and industrial standards fail to cope with the problems involved in performing radiated field measurements in shielded enclosures. Repeatability errors of 25 db are not uncommon, and relating the data to open-field values is practically impossible. New measurement methods based on the resonance characteristics of the enclosure were proposed in a paper presented by the author at WESCON 1968, giving the theoretical background and the results of preliminary experiments. This paper, a continuation of the WESCON paper, begins by presenting a general solution to the problem of radiating sources in shielded enclosures using Green's function method. A particular case, that of a vertical antenna in a rectangular enclosure, is then solved in detail, showing full agreement with measured values. Previous attempts to match theory and experiment failed due to the fact that most of the published literature asserts the completeness of the solenoidal eigenvectors E and H for modal field expansions. Actually, in the presence of current and charge distributions, irrotational eigenvectors constitute not only a necessary part of the solution, but they become the dominant terms at frequencies below cutoff. The theory also corroborates the experimental finding that the field strengths very near the source are essentially the same, whether inside an enclosure or in an open field. With this background, a detailed field-strength measurement procedure for frequencies below cutoff is worked out (the first resonant frequency for typical shielded rooms falls in the range of 20 to 50 MHz)."
"This paper provides an overview of the EMC management area, and points out major problem areas which management must resolve if an effective national EMC program is to exist."
"An approach to quantifying EMC in system effectiveness is presented employing the techniques of decision analysis. Unusual features of the approach are the treatment of uncertainty through aubjective probability theory and of attitude toward risk through system capability theory. Capturing the structure of problem relationships unique to the quantification of electrocompatibility occupies a central position; the process can be visualized in a graphical problem space. These features are combined with other preference measures to produce a useful conceptual model for analyzing the influence of EMC in system effectiveness. In its three phases - deterministic, probabilistic, and informational - the model structure progressively determines the importance of variables in deterministic, probabilistic and economic environments. The ability to assign an economic value to the complete or partial elimination of uncertainty through experimentation is a particularly important characteristic."
"The need to locate several radio transmitters and receivers in close proximity due to space limitations and yet be able to operate them simultaneously introduces severe interference. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the feasibility of using a time-sharing approach to alleviate or eliminate some of these problems. The central idea to be investigated is the concept of a switching arrangement such that individual equipments \"take turns\" in performing their designated function. That is, at any instant of time, only one equipment (transmitter or receiver) in the complex is communicating. The switching must be done at a rate such that no loss of information occurs. This switching rate is specified by the sampling theorem, where the rate is a function of the highest frequency component in the message. Attention is focused on the method of switching or sampling, with particular emphasis on the shape of the sampling signal. The trade-offs in terms of spectrum width, signal level, and numbers of equipments to be handled are examined for several sampling pulse shapes."
"The paper shows how the evaluation and effectiveness of Electromagnetic Compatibility programs for systems can be enhanced by appraising the important facets of electromagnetic compatibility engineering and management. Derivation of an \"Electromagnetic Compatibility Score\" and its application to a contract definition phase and development contract are shown. The EMC scores and EMC costs of competing subcontractors are compared."
"A continuing requirement exists to reduce the probability of occurrence of radio frequency interference (RFI) by formulating simple rules which may be easily applied to assignment of frequencies to Army tactical frequency modulation (FM) radio nets. The possibility of formulating a rule for FM cochannel and off-channel frequency assignment to provide adequate, efficient distance separation ratios was investigated. The ratio of the distance between a desired transmitter (DS) and its receiver to the distance between an interfering transmitter (DI) and the receiver for a given probability of correct information transfer is defined in terms of the ratio of desired transmitter RF power output to the interfering transmitter RF power output (PS/PI) and the ratio of desired RF input to the receiver to the interfering RF input to the receiver (S/I) required for a desired link quality. The function relating these variables is shown to be (S/ I-PS/ P1 40 J DI/DS = 10 Graphs of this function are presented for cochannel frequency assignment at the 50 percent and 90 percent confidence level of correct information transfer and at the 50 percent confidence level of correct information transfer for off-channel frequency assignment."
"The goal of compatibility has often been aptly stated. However, this goal cannot be reached until the compatibility engineer is accepted as a co-worker and consultant to the design engineer. At present, one of the restrictions he faces is the complexity of and time taken for measurements and data reduction. He cannot give the design engineers and project supervisors the information they want in the time frame they need it. Instrumentation which will reduce these time factors and increase his flexibility is seen as a necessary first step toward designed-in compatibility. In this paper the present state of the instrumentation art is surveyed. Qualitative factors such as measurement flexibility and time are considered as well as traditional specifications. From this analysis and consideration of the goals of EMC, the requirements of future EMI instrumentation are projected."
"The response of noise meter detectors to gaussian noise modulated by a rectangular wave is calculated. The detectors considered are a) average of the envelope, b) quasi-peak with charge and discharge time constants of 1 and 600 milliseconds, respectively, and c) rms of the envelope. The average and rms values are obtained explicitly. The quasi-peak value is obtained in the form of an implicit relationship, which was solved numerically and a family of curves plotted to give the quasi-peak to average and quasi-peak to rms ratios as a function of the duty cycle of the modulation. The response of the same detectors to interrupted gaussian noise is also evaluated. All the results obtained are presented in tabular form for easy reference and comparison purposes. The primary usefulness of the results obtained lies in the fact that they can be used for the construction of the physical models of noise sources; these models make it possible to bring together in the laboratory, in a controlled manner, noise sources and communication systems for interference studies."
"Opinions of what a universal EMC receiver should do, and differences on how such a receiver should be constructed are quite diverse. These ideas depend on users, operators, designers, and engineers and their training and knowledge. When considering the input requirements, decisions must be made on frequency coverage, bandwidths, input levels, amplification, and antennas. Detection schemes, calibration signal provisions, scanning speed, and the requirement for multiple active heads must be studied. An optimum IF, or more than one IF, may be required as well as BFO's, box-car pulse stretchers, pulse duration timers, prr counters, and DF circuits. Received information can be best processed by computer methods. Direct association with a small general purpose computer may protect from obsolesence and increase reliability. The major intended use determines the outputs. These may vary from go, no-go lights through meters to sophisticated oscilloscopes and XY plotters. The more complex instruments may have memories of a suitable type, or they may use the memory of an associated signal processor. Many functions must be automated; human engineering, total circuit complexity, and reliability enter here. To obtain many of the wanted features, modular construction is suggested. For extremely weak energy detection, remote sensing is applicable; results can be telemetered to the receiver. In the future it is probable that the complete receiver will be built inside the antenna. Extremely wide bands will have to be measured; circuitry capable of resolving and analyzing extremely complex phase and \"noise\" modulation techniques will have to be designed."
"The ability of a phase-lock loop (PLL) demodulator to acquire and remain locked on a desired signal in the presence of receiver noise and pulse interference such as that generated by radar equipments was determined by a measurement program. The measurements were conducted over a wide range of PLL operating conditions for a typical space instrumentation receiver. The PLL and interference signal parameters varied during the test included the desired signal-to-noise ratio, the signal-to-interference ratio, the off-set of the pulse carrier frequency from the desired signal, the pulse width, and pulse repetition rate of the interference signal and receiver tracking bandwidth. The behavior of a phase-lock loop during normal signal reception, signal fade and signal acquisition in the presence of pulse interference signals was examined by repeated measurements of loop performance for the selected test conditions. The input voltage to the voltage controlled oscillator (VCO) was instrumented to record oscillator sweeping, signal or interference acquisition, and loss of lock. The measurements indicated the range of pulse interference characteristics which could cause false lock or unlock problems in the PLL. In general, the effects of the interference were found to be strongly related to the simulated radar duty cycle, and nominally influenced by the amplitude, frequency separation between desired and undesired signals as well as the operating signal-to-noise ratio."
"D.O.D. Directive 3222.3 with its clearly stated objectives (Section IV) of operational and built-in design compatibility necessitates a fresh approach to certain inadequate MIL STD's. One of them is in particular need of revision. MIL STD 220A, with its 50Ω reference, is based on assumptions contrary to the facts which are: 1) Interfacial impedances change with frequency, time, and location and can be nearly anywhere on the Smith Chart; 2) Interfacial resonances in the stopband, and eigen and interactive resonances in the passband, render the conventionally predicted performance of the filter illusory. Hence, new, more realistic criteria for filter testing are necessary: I. Compatibility: The test method must be a qualification test and must be able to permit selection of the more insensitive filter: insensitive meaning that in the broad area about the cutoff frequency the filter is relatively unaffected by interface changes. II. Predictability: The filter test method must permit a selection of a filter to be effective as stipulated minimally by the control plan prior to installation of the system and independent of changes in the system. III. Reliability: The filter must not be destroyed by insertion gain in the so-called passband. IV. Practicability: Filters meeting the specs must be economical and practical. V. Simplicity: The test method should be reasonably simple and brief. From the various solutions which have been proposed, two try to overcome fundamentally the limitations inherent in MIL STD 220A: (a) the in situ measurement (b) the worst case measurement."
"This paper describes a method of fabricating waveguide below cut off high pass filters from sections of waveguide without the use of special jigs, molds, or mandrels and eliminates the requirement for welding. This technique employs a slot cut along the centerline of the top and bottom of the waveguide for a length of approximately 12 wavelengths. The waveguide is then squeezed to close the slot for approximately seven wavelengths. This narrows the width of the waveguide and raises its cut off frequency. Squeezing the waveguide only in the middle portion produces gradual tapers on each end reducing the standing wave ratio and insertion loss caused by an abrupt change in waveguide width. The width of the slot will determine the final width of the waveguide which is critical for a specific cut off frequency. Since the slot is cut on the center line of the top and bottom of the waveguide it does not affect the performance of the filter. Top and bottom plates are epoxied in place to maintain the proper waveguide dimensions and seal the waveguide for pressurization. Precise adjustment of the cut off frequency, the attenuation rate below cut off, and adjustment of the VSWR over a particular frequency range are easily controlled since RF sweep generators and monitoring devices can be employed to monitor all these characteristics during the squeezing process."
"This paper will discuss the uses and design consideration of telephone line filters and signal line filters. Differentiation will be made between \"telephone line filters\", which serve telephones and other audio equipment, and \"signal line filters\" where the signals may be pulse trains or digital data feeding computers. The frequency response requirements of this type of filter and the measurements necessary to check response will be discussed. Such design consideration will be discussed as: allowable pass band ripple, group delay, voltage and current ratings, and attenuation in the stop bands as it relates to the number of components."
"This paper presents a simple graphical method for designing low pass filters in systems with mismatched load and source impedances. The insertion loss equations for these networks are expressed in terms of three variables which facilitate the development of a simple and rapid design technique. Nomographs and design charts, based on the results of a digital computer study of the equations, are presented for pi and tee type networks. Instructions for the use of the charts are included through the study of practical design examples."
"The insertion loss of a low pass noise filter is dependent upon the impedance of the source of energy and the load as well as the values and number of elements of the filter. In turn, the impedance of the load and source as seen by the filter are a function of the characteristic impedance of the lines leading to and from the filter and the length of the lines with regard to the frequency, as well as the terminating impedances. The determination of the general characteristic impedance of a pair of lines are thoroughly defined, along with the subsequent reflections caused by the difference of impedance between the load, source and the lines. The resultant impedance as seen at the filter is then used to obtain general equations which can be used to determine the insertion loss of filters in a mismatched network. The insertion loss of a pi filter in a matched 50 ohm system and a typically mismatched system is then calculated with the results tabulated in graph form to illustrate the significance of considering the transmission line effect in predicting the insertion loss of a low pass filter."
"In order to evaluate receiver susceptibility to interference, it is necessary to have some means of measuring and specifying receiver characteristics. One major source of receiver susceptibility information is the spectrum signature measurement program performed under MIL-STD-449C. Although many of the important receiver interference effects result from the same basic cause (i.e., undesired nonlinearities) and are influenced by the same basic factors such as selectivity and gain, under the current spectrum signature measurement program, each type of interference is measured separately as if they were completely unrelated. As a result, it is expensive and time consuming to obtain a complete \"spectrum signature\" for a receiver. Furthermore, receiver interference specifications have adopted the same general philosophy of treating each of the interference effects separately, and consequently, it is prohibitively expensive and difficult to establish any form of production line EMC quality control. What is desired is a receiver \"figure of merit\" that is simple to measure and describes the overall susceptibility of a receiver to interference. If this elusive but needed receiver \"figure of merit\" can be defined, it would provide a basis for receiver EMC specification, measurement, comparison, and quality control. This paper discusses a single receiver parameter that is easily measured, and may be used directly to evaluate receiver susceptibility to desensitization, cross modulation, and intermodulation. Furthermore, because this parameter provides an overall measure of the combined effects of RF selectivity, gain, and nonlinearity, it provides some information on receiver spurious response characteristics."
"A special fixture has been developed which enables carefully controlled measurements of shielding effectiveness to be made on materials (two-dimensional), conducting gaskets, shielding O-rings and caulking compounds, and peripheral contact finger-strips. Special features of this fixture are described. The method is basically that of MIL-STD-285, with variations. The authors present a justification, on theoretical and practical grounds, for this experimental method, which is based fundamentally on thorough physical exploration, with frequency and field as fixed parameters. The importance of a controlled fixture and experimental setup in enabling the relative measurements of shielding effectiveness of a group of samples is discussed, together with the additional requirements for absolute measurement of any one sample. In the latter connection, several definitions are possible, for example, of the shielding effectiveness of a conducting gasket, and it is of utmost importance that agreement be established among manufacturers on definitions of basic terms, so that comparative analyses of statements of experimentally measured shielding effectiveness can be intelligently made by the engineering community and, especially, the potential user of the products being measured. This point is discussed at length in the paper, and arguments advanced pro and con the various possible definitions. Typical results of fairly extensive completed programs of shielding measurements involving varieties of test samples are presented, to demonstrate the use of the fixture and the methodology employed, and the orders of magnitudes of results obtained."
"A methodology and technical approach are presented as a point of departure for the development of a standard to measure the performance of shielded cables. An attractive approach would be to measure by standard procedures the basic parameters which control emanation or penetration. Such parameters include the sheath current transfer impedance and cylindrical shield open-wire pair equivalent. The basis for these parameters are developed and experimental methods to measure these key factors are presented."
"As electronic components and systems are miniaturized, electromagnetic capability measurements are complicated by the requirement of making broadband probes and energy samplers sufficiently small in order to minimize parasitic impedances and mismatch. Use of microstrip transmission lines as couplers or adaptors to connect miniature components under test to standard coaxial broadband test equipment can provide considerably better control of impedance match than other transmission line configurations resulting in improved accuracy of measurement and convenience of use. A description of microstrip characteristics and fabrication procedures pertinent to this application is given. A novel microstrip device with a provision for inserting current probes, electroexplosive devices, magnetic cores and other miniature current-sensitive components has been built and tested. It can be used as a broadband coupler for measuring impedance and transient response to current inputs or as a calibrator to supply a predetermined current to a current-sensing probe from DC to 1.1 GHz with a maximum error of 2.7 dB. Other microstrip couplers designed for measurements on electroexplosive devices are also described."
"This paper reviews the most widely used conducted interference requirements imposed on electronic equipment. Comparative test methods have been devised to evaluate EMI filters using equivalent input and output load conditions. Using these test methods, a design engineer can obtain more realistic data and a better confidence level in meeting the applicable electromagnetic interference and susceptibility requirements. Revision of MIL-F-15733 and MIL-STD-220 is suggested to incorporate a more precise test method to determine normal operating insertion loss (db) criteria on EMI filters. These proposed test methods would correlate more precisely to EMI conducted measurements than the present 50 ohm system test requirements of using buffer networks or no load conditions."
"This paper presents recently employed methods and techniques for properly designing and testing electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) filters from the viewpoints of EMC and reliability. Because of the application of current probes in the latest EMC specifications, the use of attenuation as a filter design criteria has less value to the EMC engineer. A more applicable characteristic has been found to be the Transfer Impedance. High transfer impedance is best obtained if the filter presents a high input and output impedance in the stop band. Therefore, the T section filter is well suited for the job. The transfer impedance equation of a T section filter, using series inductors and a shunt capacitor, is as follows: --Z L) + jX T K~ C L (2 ~ L). C -- For frequencies well above cutoff and for the worse case condition of generator impedance approaching zero this can be reduced to: -- X 2 | T| XC-- As with attenuation, the transfer impedance is more easily given in logarithmic terms, or decibels above one ohm. With the transfer impedance characteristics and a predicted circuit noise voltage, it is easy to arrive at the final value of short circuit current that the current probe will see. In a T section filter, the values of transfer impedance are characteristically higher than those of attenuation in the stop band."
"This paper attempts to outline the seriousness of interference in the important microwave bands and suggests that prediction, prevention and good managerment of the radio spectrum are very necessary. Some typical examples of conflicts are given along with recommendations for solutions from a frequency management point-of-view with emphasis on early co-ordination done by one central organization."
"The electrical characteristics of early airplane structures is unknown; there was no requirement for such knowledge because they carried little if any electronic equipment and EMC problems did not exist. Incidentally, the all-metal airplane structures inherently provided all the desired electrical characteristics which made the airframes compatible with their electrical/electronic systems. If we accept today's specifications as accurately reflecting structures requirements for electrocompatibility, they provide a guide for determining the adequacy of tomorrow's complex structures. While today's structures are not nonmetal as they were perhaps ten years ago, the intrusion of other metal and nonmetal components has had but slight effect on the EMC engineer. The impact of tomorrow's complex structures of various metals, nonmetals, and adhesives may well result in the development of a specialist to be known as a Structures EMC Engineer. The first engineers of this type were probably those who deliberately designed into the structure of the plywood deHaviland MOSQUITO fighter-bomber, electrical characteristics required for compatibility with its electrical/electronic complement. An analysis of their efforts may provide a basic guide for tomorrow's structures EMC engineer."
"This paper describes the observations made of the laboratory test arrangement simulating an automobile ignition system. The effect of distributor gap length on the spark plug current is analyzed. From the analysis of the spark plug current waveshape, it is demonstrated that the radiated interference is significantly reduced by lengthening of the distributor gap, in combination with resistance cable and resistor spark plug."
"In order to achieve a large improvement in the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of Army communications-electronics equipment, the U. S. Army Electronics Command (ECOM) has been conducting a comprehensive program to determine the fundamental causes of interference. The objective of the program is to find design techniques of broad applicability which will maximize EMC without degrading the primary functions of the equipment. Some interesting and potentially valuable studies which are discussed are: EMC education, non-linear devices, shielding and filtering, the binomial pulse, and receivers. Some ideas, held by many design engineers, which are fallacious are mentioned, and some problems yet to be solved are pointed out."
"Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has been utilized to provide a stable AM and FM modulated oscillator having far less undesired output, yet considerably greater versatility and frequency range than other sigal sources. This oscillator has been exhaustively studied in theory and experiment; however, only a brief but comprehensive review of theory as it interests the electronic engineer is given. The basic design of this oscillator is discussed along with the reasons why other NMR designs have failed."
"Requirements of U. S. Department of Defense and other agencies are that system designers control the spectral characteristics of all new transmitters. The purpose of this paper is to consider the noise outputs of all commonly used microwave tubes and from there proceed to survey the methods of removal and elimination of noise by filtering. Practical design tradeoffs comparing desired stopband attenuation levels versus sacrifice in system VSWR, passband insertion loss, power handling, cost, and size are made. Some recent advances in high power microwave filtering are introduced with recommendations of filter chains usable with various tubes and under various conditions."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the important properties of a bridge is the sensitivity of the unbalance voltage to changes in some bridge parameter. In the self-balancing bridge, the uniformity of the null sensitivity, as well as the peak value of sensitivity, is relevant. The sensitivity of the four-arm Wheatstone bridge is reexamined from this point of view, with particular regard to the problem of the interchange of the generator and detector. It is shown that a single parameter set of universal curves suffices to describe the sensitivity variation of both configurations."
"A system has been assembled for rapid comparison of production step attenuators, with a reference attenuator using direct substitution at spot frequencies in the VHF and UHF range. The total attenuation range for such tests is 140 dB, with a basic resolution of ±0.01 dB and with maximum errors of ±0.08 dB, attributable, primarily, to reflection inaccuracies. Simplified methods for measurement to 110 dB at any selected frequency are described, as well as additional refinements permitting spot frequency measurements to 170 dB. The basic equipment required for these measurements is a well-shielded signal source generating in excess of 100 mW, and a low-noise narrow-band receiver with provision for locking the signal frequency to the center of the receiver passband."
"An inexpensive probability analyzer is designed for the measurement of the probability density function and distribution functions of random signals. The operation principle of the system is explained through detailed discussion of each active stage. It utilizes Schmitt triggers with low hysteresis to provide good accuracy. The output of the analyzer is measured by using a counter. Experimental probability density and distribution functions are obtained for a sinusoidal input, and the measured results are in good agreement with the theoretical functions."
"A simple and reliable one-shot switch operating in the millisecond range is described. Closure is by mercury contacts that can pass 5 amperes with very small voltage drop. The apparatus is particularly useful in the study and testing of electroexplosive devices."
"An inductor connected to a bridge of five capacitors forms a single-resonant circuit in which the natural frequency can be set independently (almost) by two separate controls. Such a resonator is useful in amplifiers and oscillators that need to be tuned to many separate frequencies. This arrangement is particularly advantageous when the frequency must be preset in a digital manner, as in a decade oscillator. The characteristics of this circuit are described and analyzed, and numerical examples are presented to demonstrate the accuracy of the approximation involved. In a decade oscillator tuning from 9.00 to 9.99 MHz, the trimming error is ±9 Hz. In a beat-frequency oscillator using two resonators of this kind, the frequency can be set to a repeatability of one part n 106, with a trimming error of one part in 105."
"The two basic difficulties usually encountered in multigrid retarding-potential analyzers have been identified and effectively overcome. The frequently experienced difficulty with such probes caused by the continually changing work function of metal surfaces due to a more or less evanescent sorption of ions has been eliminated by coating the nickel surfaces with a bonded graphite dispersion that leaves the surface microscopically rough and that is peculiarly free of transient sorbed films. The very divergent electric field near the wires of grids on which retarding potentials are applied defocuses the charged particle streams and interferes with the proper application of retarding potentials unless the fields near such grids are kept small. Double grids are used where necessary in order to insure minimum field penetration from the interior of the analyzer to the medium under study, and from one region to the next inside the analyzer. The device is versatile in that it can be used as a classical analyzer or as a filter-type analyzer. The amount of lens-effect defocusing of the charged particles is different for the two modes and, for most applications, the filter mode is preferable. The performance of the device is experimentally evaluated."
"This paper describes a tunable field-strength meter covering the 12-30-MHz range, which can be used to measure electric intensities from 0.1 to 1000 V/m in the near zone of an antenna with an estimated uncertainty of ±2 dB. The use of high-resistance plastic telemetry lines enables the field to be probed without disturbance, while a novel detector circuit and meter enable a 40-dB display with minimal reading error. Laboratory and field test data on the device are presented."
"In the course of designing an airborne radar system, there is inevitably a requirement that the equipment does not generate microphonic noise over a specified level. The level of interest can be such that accurate measurement can be difficult. This paper compares three measuring systems: a simple microwave bridge system, the commercially available Allscott system, and a coherent system conceived and developed after the above two systems were found inadequate. Also presented are results of tests performed on typical microwave components."
"This paper describes a system for the high-precision, rapid measurement and evaluation of rotatable object profiles such as cam's. The data are acquired off-line by sampling with a high-resolution optical encoder and are recorded on magnetic tape via an incremental recorder. The recorded data are subsequently analyzed by a computer program to provide the required parameters. The system is characterized by ease of operation, high precision, repeatability, and relative simplicity. It makes available an automated measurement capability that was previously only possible by manual methods on an optical lathe or a measuring engine."
"This paper describes a simplified radar target simulator that can approximate the output of a pulse radar receiver so that the detection capabilities of amplitude-sensing video target detection devices can be measured. The simplified simulator uses only video frequency components; therefore, its output is not identical to that from a radar. However, an analysis of the simulator output gives the probability density function for signal plus noise and the equation for the probability of detection. A comparison of the probability of detection for the simplified simulator and an actual radar receiver is made and some results are plotted. Therefore, the output of the simplified radar simulator can be used to measure the probability of detection of amplitude-sensing video target detectors because the results can be related to the case of an actual radar receiver. Although the example discussed involves a radar receiver, the analysis is general in its application to all narrow-band AM receivers using envelope detection."
"The current comparator using a ferromagnetic core has several merits especially for application to current A-D converters. Because the comparator utilizes the coercive force of the core to give the threshold value to the performance, drift errors cannot be neglected if the ambient temperature changes. An electronic compensation method for drift and experimental results are described. The temperature drift in the performance of the comparator is decreased from 120 mA to 1 mA over the temperature range of 10°C to 55°C. The thermal drift of the compensated comparator is less than that of the comparator at constant temperature. Using the compensation method, accuracy of the current A-D converter with the comparator is maintained to an order of 0.1 percent of the maximum value of the input over wide temperature range."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The need for a convenient means of measurement of the actual contact force for a pin and socket connector is outlined and the design of a piezoelectric strain gauge suitable for use with in-line connectors is described. PZT is used for the strain sensitive element of the gauge, and the relatively large electric charges produced by small strains permit the use of a very simple electrical circuit. With sufficient experimental care, variations in contact force for different sockets of a given type may be correlated with variations in contact resistance."
"This paper describes a technique for separating the two signal voltages necessary for balancing an ac impedance bridge from its detector output voltage. The technique is unique in that the necessary information is derived from modulations on the generator voltage. These modulations are formed by perturbing the variable arms at a fixed frequency but phased 90° apart. The two signals are then separated by phase detectors referenced to the modulation frequency and the proper phase. The perturbation increases and decreases the arm by a small amount, comparable to the action of a human operator increasing and decreasing the variable arm slightly to see which direction appears to lead to a null. Although no attempt was made to automate a bridge, this paper discusses the theoretical considerations for deriving the proper control signals for automating a bridge as well as experimental results obtained from a working model of such a system."
"The effect of essential nonlinearity of phase-sensitive detector characteristics is studied and determined theoretically in detail, assuming that the input signal is a sine wave in the presence of additive narrow-band Gaussian noise. Minimum, maximum, and limiting values of nonlinearities of detector characteristics as functions of the input signal-to-noise ratio and the phase angle between the input signal and the reference wave are determined by means of computer-aided analysis. A set of curves that can be used to evaluate in detail the essential nonlinearities of detector performance and characteristics over a wide range of operating conditions and significant parameters is presented. Particular emphasis is placed on the determination of optimum detector operating conditions for minimum essential nonlinearities in wide-band Fourier-transform high-resolution nuclear magnetic-resonance and electron-spin-resonance spectrometers."
"An integrated circuit radiosonde system was constructed and tested, with results indicating an improvement over the existing methods. This work deals with establishing the parameters. circuit design, construction, and testing of such a system. Sampling, pulse width modulation, time multiplexing, and pulse width to digital conversion are discussed. Further improvements for a follow-on system are delineated."
"In designing digital systems, one often faces the task of replacing a given analog filter by an equivalent digital filter. This paper proposes a method for synthesizing such digital filters in the time domain. It is assumed that the pulsed transfer function of the digital filter is a ratio of two rational polynomials. The coefficients are then determined by least-square fitting the digital filter to the analog filter's sampled input and output data. The resulting equations for computing the coefficients are linear. It is shown that the digital filter is essentially related to the analog filter, the sampling time, and the power spectrum of the signal being processed. If the signal is band-limited and the sampling frequency is sufficiently high, the digital filter can then be simply approximated by the Z transform of the analog filter multiplied by the sampling period."
"Generation of approximately sinusoidal waveforms by a digital method is described. Very low frequencies (below 1 Hz) are easily obtained without the use of large inductors or capacitors, and the method is fully compatible with integrated circuit techniques. A process equivalent to nonrecursive digital filtering is used to remove the majority of harmonics from a binary waveform generated by a feedback shift register, leaving the fundamental together with only a few high-order harmonics of small amplitude."
"This paper describes an \"electrodeless\" technique for measuring microwave conductivity and dielectric constant of a bulk semiconductor boule without the necessity of fabricating samples. All that is required is that the boule be sufficiently large and that it have one planar surface. The planar surface is butted up to a flange terminating a circular waveguide. The complex TEo01 (circular E-field) mode-reflection coefficient at the surface is then measured with a reflection-coefficient bridge. Because of the particular properties of this mode, no contact impedance occurs as does in the case of the TE10□ mode. Thus the measurements yield the true bulk properties of the material. To demonstrate the technique, 48- and 72-GHz measurements of the conductivity and permittivity of a number of semiconductor boules at room temperature are presented and are shown to agree favorably with results obtained by other means."
"A novel hybrid function generator that replaces a servo multiplier previously used in an instrument to measure the length distribution function of a population of cotton fibers is described. The function generator linearizes the output of a photocell by extracting the square root of this signal and displaying the result in digital form as well as producing an analog signal. It has general application as a replacement for analog function generation and multiplication."
"A microwave method of measurement of 4πMs, for high-resistivity materials such as ferrites and garnets is described. The method employs the ferromagnetic resonance absorption of microwave energy, and the shape-dependent demagnetization effects as given by Kittel's equation to evaluate 4πMs. Effects of specimen shape and position are analyzed, and the superiority of a method employing two pieces in the waveguide is pointed out. The advantages of these techniques over the usual magnetometer methods are compatibility with measurements on other parameters, ease of shaping the specimen, avoidance of calibration procedures and simplicity of setup. In particular, this method is the most convenient for ferrite thin films."
"Hitherto the instrumentation of moving arcs has been neglected and photographic methods have mainly been used to determine arc velocities. Furthermore, previous arc research has been confined, in the main, to high-speed arcs (greater than 10 ft/s) in circuit breaking and similar applications. This paper considers, for the first time, the slowly moving arc (about 1 ft/min) associated with such industrial processes as welding, profile cutting, zone refining, etc. New arc instrumentation methods have been developed for these arc velocities. They use analog and digital techniques. These new methods are simple, yet sufficiently accurate for sophisticated industrial applications. Typical results are given."
"The current conveyor-a new circuit building block recently introduced-is applied to the design of a simple current-measuring probe. The monopolar version of this probe features high stability and accuracy (0.5 percent of nominal reading). A dc to 100-MHz frequency band is obtained from the bipolar version. Both versions minimize the disturbance to the measured circuit by presenting a very low impedance at the current-measuring terminals. The output voltage of the probe is directly proportional to the measured current with the transimpedance being chosen almost at will. The design makes use of a dual transistor and a commercially available integrated circuit."
"A high Q tuned circuit is shock excited by the pulsed interruption of current flow through a pair of charge-storage diodes. The resulting damped oscillation is recorded via an FET source follower on a CRO or X-Y recorder. The Q is calculated from the observed logarithmic decay period. A Q of over 900 is readily measured at 60 MHz. The method is useful in the measurement of varactor series resistance and in the checking of the loading imposed by other components. The accuracy of the method is also discussed."
"An instrument is described for the measurement of angular velocity and angular acceleration of a rotating shaft, based upon an optical angular transducer and an associated operational digital (pulse rate) system. The angular transducer produces a pulse rate directly proportional to the instantaneous angular velocity and this quantity and its rate of change are processed by the pulse rate system and presented as parallel binary-coded decimal representations driving in-line digital displays. The operational digital system comprises essentially an electronic register controlling a variable rate pulse generator that tracks the input pulse rate in a frequency lock loop. Changes of loop frequency are brought about by changing the register contents by positive or negative correction pulses, and the rate at which these are supplied provides an accurate measure of acceleration or deceleration, respectively, provided that the loop is locked on and hence follows the changes of input pulse rate accompanying changes of angular velocity. The error correction pulse rate may be measured in a second frequency lock loop and the registers in the two loops used to control digital in-line decimal displays of angular velocity and acceleration, of ranges up to 10 000 r/min (±1 r/min) and 1000 r/min/s (±1 percent), respectively."
"This tutorial paper reviews analog modulation theory. Emphasis is upon recent advances in the theory, and the implication of these advances upon measurement of properties of modulated signals. A technique for developing measurements is given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This study concerns the measurement of electrothermal efficiency in an ac plasma torch. It was found that the best method of measuring arc input power was an electronic system involving multiplication and integration although thermal wattmeters could be used with a slight loss of accuracy. A self-jacketed parallel flow calorimeter was found best for measuring the heat content of the torch output. The flow-dependent thermal efficiency of this torch was found to exceed 60 percent. For established designs of torch the electrode losses can be used to establish the input power to the arc, and thus eliminate the need for an electrical measurement."
"A precision phase meter with integrated circuits is described. Important features include variable sensitivity and automatic return toward midscale when the output approaches prescribed limits. The phase meter accepts inputs with frequencies from 10 to 100 kHz and with an amplitude range from 30 mV to 3 volts rms. The operational temperature range is from 0 to 50°C. The overall phase accuracy within these conditions is about 0.5°."
"A simple technique for measuring the time delay a (modulated) radio-frequency signal experiences when passing through a medium or device is described. A carrier signal at the desired frequency is (sine) wave amplitude modulated (e. g., at 2 MHz). The modulated signal is passed through the medium or device, amplitude-detected, and compared in phase with the modulating signal from which the time delay is deduced. Time delays of a fraction of a nanosecond are easily measured."
"This paper describes a simple method that allows X-array hot wire measurements to be made in a flow where the direction of the mean velocity changes during a traverse. Such situations are encountered in measurements behind turbulence promoters, flow across curved surfaces, in diffusers, nozzles, and many others. Variations in mean flow direction of up to 55° are allowable without requiring extensive angle calibration at each new measurement point."
"Two methods of using time domain reflectometry for the characterization of a system of multiple parallel transmission lines are described. The two methods are the reflection method and the direct method. The selection of a method depends on the accuracy required and the property of the system of transmission lines to be measured: [Y0], [Z0], [C], or [L]."
"Low-noise antenna systems are frequently used in conjunction with measurements of atmospheric and cosmic background noise at microwave frequencies. The input transmission line losses of these receiving systems must be precisely calibrated to insure proper identification of the portion of operating noise temperature attributable to the external environment. Although most components in an antenna line can be calibrated by conventional insertion-loss measurements, many feed component losses must be evaluated by means of nonstandard techniques. This paper describes a radiometric method for calibrating the loss of multimode antenna-feed components in which the field is linearly or circularly polarized. The method consists of measuring operating noise temperature, first with the components under evaluation installed and again after substitution by a waveguide section of known loss. Calibration and error analysis equations are derived and discussed. Application of the radiometric method, for the calibration of a mode-generator and quarter-wave plate polarizing section, resulted in a loss measurement of (0.0069 ±0.0016 pe)/dB."
"Equations are derived for the exact identification of a transmission line discontinuity that can be represented by an equivalent circuit consisting of one or more cascaded, series-inductive, parallel-capacitive, and series-transmission-line elements. Equations are presented for determining frequency domain return loss from time domain reflectometer data and the frequency limitations for this method of discontinuity evaluation are discussed."
"The various methods of extending the range of frequency counters are discussed and some of the shortcomings of each are pointed out. A new method that minimizes these short-comings is in the range of frequencies that can be counted entirely by the frequency limitations of AND gates; also it requires no tuning and its counting precision is the same as that of the basic counter."
"An apparatus is described that measures deviations from reciprocity in the propagation of electromagnetic waves traveling through a medium. The medium under test was plasma. The apparatus was built for 3-cm waves. The minimum detectable phase difference between the two directions was ~ 2 X 10-3 degree."
"A new technique involving harmonic generation in measuring the doping profile normal to the surface of semiconductor epitaxial wafers has been developed. This method has been used in the construction of a direct-plotting inverse-doping profiler which can determine the doping concentration with an absolute accuracy of about 10 percent and a relative accuracy of a few percent. The depth resolution is on the order of a Debye length. The profiler has the advantages of providing immediate results and accuracy at low cost."
"The use of the free-space waveguide-bridge dielectric-measurement technique is demonstrated for accurate complex-permittivity measurements at millimeter wavelengths. An error analysis is presented for applications of this technique with the sample rotated in the plane of incidence in order to avoid coupling between the sample and the horns, and to minimize the effects of multiple reflections from the two air/dielectric interfaces. Data are presented for slip-cast fused silica at 94 GHz to demonstrate the accuracy of the technique and to verify the error analysis."
"A replaceable wall microwave cavity for semiconductor diagnostics is described for operation at cryogenic temperatures. A method of temperature compensation of resonant frequency is developed to minimize the frequency deviation due to thermal contraction of the cavity body. The anomalous skin effect at low temperatures is observed and taken into consideration."
"The purpose of this paper is to present an applications-oriented discussion of the Kalman filter theory. The subject has received extensive treatment in the fields of orbit estimation and deterministic control system theory. This paper will emphasize the extraction of information from an additive-noise environment, i.e., the classical observation problem and its relation to the estimation theory. This subject is chosen in order to make the discussion concrete, and because of the general lack of application of the newer Kalman theory to this important area. Engineering application of the filter theory is discussed by working through a filter design that involves both compensation and estimation."
"Design-type information is presented for a system that uses pattern recognition principles to sense position and velocity of moving objects. Judging from the literature, little or no work has been done on this type of system. It is believed that these systems have potential industrial and military applications, e.g., an optical object finder that identifies objects in addition to locating them, or a process control sensor to detect grain size and other dimensional properties. One of the most important parts of the system is the receptor. Minimum receptor matrix size as a function of pattern shapes, orientation, position, and velocity is considered and results are presented."
"The objective of this paper is to obtain numerical bounds on the frequency drift of a Clapp voltage-controlled oscillator. It will be seen that the Clapp oscillator has a center frequency that changes by less than 0.1 percent after 20 years and over 50°C temperature range."
"The excellent relative frequency stability of the output of two microwave oscillators phase-locked to a common reference signal permits the use of an audio intermediate frequency in the superheterodyne measurement of microwave attenuation. The phase-lock feature also permits the measurement of microwave phase at the audio frequency. The choice of the audio instead of the more conventional 30-MHz intermediate frequency is made on the basis of the low cost and convenient operation, for similar accuracy, of an audio ratio transformer and audio phase shifter in comparison with a 30-MHz cutoff attenuator and 30-MHz phase shifter. A measurement system of this type has been operated at frequencies ranging from 2.5 to 18 GHz. The basic reference signal for phase lock is fed into harmonic mixers associated with the signal source and local oscillator. The outputs of the harmonic mixers go to phase discriminators that control the microwave oscillator frequencies. The precision of measurement at a signal frequency of 10 GHz varies from ±0.0002 dB for an attenuation step of 10 dB or less, to ±0.001 dB for a 50-dB step."
"A temperature-compensated de-substitution-type RF power bridge is described. Temperature compensation is accomplished through utilization of dual bridges and the widely used dualelement temperature-compensated thermistor mount. A review of the RF-to-dc substitution technique is made prior to the description of the bridge. An analysis of the measurement accuracy shows total errors of less than 0.14 percent at 1 mW and less than 0.085 percent at a 10-mW RF power measurement. These errors include those arising out of ambient temperature variation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Nonlinear phase distortion (amplitude-modulation to phase-modulation conversion) in microwave limiters can be different under static and dynamic conditions. A technique for measurement of dynamic phase distortion is described in which a two-tone test signal is used to simulate amplitude modulation with modulating frequencies of the order of megahertz. The two-tone test signal is generated by linearly summing two equal-amplitude sine waves. The result is a constant-frequency amplitude-modulated signal whose envelope varies as a rectified cosine wave at the beat frequency of the two sine waves. There is no phase deviation except at the envelope zeros, where the phase jumps 180°. Measurements are made by splitting the output signal from the limiter into two identical signals and delaying one relative to the other by approximately an odd multiple of one-half the envelope period. The two signals, when displayed on an X-Y cathode-ray tube, produce a pair of filled-in ellipses with major axes at 45° and and 135°. Peak phase deviation is obtained by direct measurement of either ellipse. Measurement data in E band are given for two tunnel-diode amplifier-limiters, a balanced mixer-limiter, and a traveling-wave-tube amplifier followed by a balanced mixer-limiter."
"A frequency-domain interpretation of the phase stability of an oscillator is discussed. From a knowledge of the time dependence of an oscillator phase during a time interval T* it is possible to give the characteristics of this oscillator, not only for this time interval, but also for subsequent time intervals. Since the use of a Fourier transform for the computation of a continuous power spectrum is unrealistic, a discrete-spectrum approach will be taken. Usually, in the calculation of power spectra, stationarity of the fluctuations is assumed, although experiment indicates that this is often not the case. A more realistic approach is adopted. Analytical phenomena and random walk are separated from white noise on the basis of statistical criteria using discrete Fourier transforms. The white noise is then interpreted in the frequency domain. Both random walk and specific signals are studied in the time domain and can be separated by digital filtering. Two different sets of experimental results are analyzed by this method, one derived from measurements on a quartz-crystal oscillator locked to a low-frequency transmitter and the second from measurements on an ammonia maser. In both cases, measurement precision and ease of prediction of the behavior of the oscillator are improved."
"A technique is described for extending the range of the compensated current comparator so that it may be used for calibrating current transformers at ratios both greater and less than 1/1. The concept of providing compensation windings for both the primary and secondary ratio windings is introduced and a new method of correcting for the capacitance error due to burden is presented. Details on how a compensated current comparator previously developed for ratios from 1/1 to 240/1 may be adapted for this purpose are discussed and results of measurements at ratios down to 0.01/1 with this comparator are given."
"A direct-current-comparator bridge for calibrating four-terminal resistors or shunts at currents up to 20 000 amperes is described. Measurements can be made at up to full rated current of the shunts so that the effects of the load coefficient are included. The resistor under test is compared with a reference resistor of higher value by measuring the ratio of the currents through the two resistors required to produce equal voltages across them. A comparator bridge with a range of 100 amperes and errors of less than 1 ppm has been described previously. Improvements to this bridge have been made, the main one being a reversing feature, which permits the currents through the resistors to be reversed in a few milliseconds. This makes an accurate measurement easier, particularly if there is a change of resistance due to heating. By connecting a second comparator in cascade, the range has been extended to 20 000 amperes at an overall ratio up to 2 × 106: 1, with only a slight loss of accuracy; the errors may be a few parts per million. Other applications of the measuring system are the accurate measurement of large currents or the calibration of transductors."
"A method of analyzing data taken in routine comparisons of a test group of saturated cells to a reference group, so that shifts in the electromotive forces of individual reference cells may be detected, is explained. Limitations on the minimum number of reference cells adequate for close tracking of cells under text become apparent from examination of data, as do the advantages of knowing precisely the electromotive force of each reference cell at the time of use. The technique is suggested as a convenient means of augmenting surveillance of the stability of individual reference cells with respect to the average of a larger group."
"The application of a readily assembled comparator circuit, previously used in the comparison calibration of inductive and resistive voltage dividers, has been extended to cover the comparison of impedance standards. As an example requiring the most stringent performance from the circuit, the comparison of four-terminal inductance standards and their absolute determination in terms of the unit of capacitance have been studied. A data-reduction procedure has been devised to utilize a partial set of pair-wise comparison measurements to establish the absolute scale of inductance from 10 henrys to 500 μH. A realistic assessment of system errors has been incorporated in the data reduction, which establishes the absolute accuracy at approximately 0.003 percent over the whole range. Determination of the quality factor Q of the inductors to better than 0.2 percent has also resulted from these measurements, principally at 1 kHz."
"A system is described for the measurement of the magnitude and phase of the reflection coefficient over wide frequency bands. The method consists of recording the voltage at several points along the standing-wave pattern in a coaxial line. A fixed probe is used and the distance between the probe and the load is altered by successively inserting several lengths of precision coaxial line. Knowing these lengths and the frequency of the signal, a curve representing the standing-wave pattern is fitted to the experimental points by means of a computer program performing a least-squares minimization. To cover a given frequency band, the frequency is changed in discrete steps and the corresponding probe voltage recorded automatically. The measured impedance is referred directly to the characteristic impedance of air-dielectric coaxial lines."
"A simple apparatus for measuring the relative phase difference between two signals of identical frequency anywhere within an octave band at microwave frequencies is described. Instantaneous measurements can be performed upon carriers that are periodically 100 percent modulated by narrow pulses since no mechanical contrivances are required. Phase information is converted by detectors into four channels of amplitude information, and these are then combined to yield a relative phase measurement that is unambiguous over a 360° range. In principle, the method is independent of relative signal amplitudes, but in practice it is limited by the useful range of the detectors. Two power dividers, a 90° coupler and a 180° hybrid, four detectors, and an oscilloscope comprise the necessary basic hardware. A derivation of the basic principles of the phase comparator is presented, together with a discussion of calibration test results, for every 10° in phase at each of nine separate frequencies over an octave band. Finally, a processing device for generating a digital indication of relative phase angle is also described."
"A computer-oriented program for control and dissemination of measurement parameters as applied in a metrology laboratory is described. The program includes the capability for automated data readout of certain measurement systems as process inputs, computer storage and statistical analysis of \"absolute\" values of fixed standards, computer data computation incorporating all known information on measurement-system entities, and parameter status control. The preparation of reports of calibration by computer output is provided for repetitive services. Operational details of the program as applied to the dc/LF region of capability are discussed."
"The Computer Augmented Oscilloscope System (CAOS) is a laboratory-computer terminal intended for experiments involving waveforms and their interpretation. The terminal is portable and can be used wherever telephone access to a suitably programmed computer is available. The CAOS laboratory equipment includes a sampling oscilloscope with a storage CRT, the terminal proper, and a telephone line connection. The terminal includes alphameric and function keyboards, A/D and D/A converters, a read-only store character generator, sequencing and control logic, and circuits for interfacing to the oscilloscope and the telephone line. CAOS is an interface between the experimenter, the experiment, and the computer. It provides digital acquisition of waveform data, system calibration, data analysis, experiment control, and graphic and alphameric display. CAOS can emulate a number of laboratory instruments and can operate additional X-Y storage oscilloscopes."
"In high-accuracy swept-frequency insertion-loss testing, antenna-pattern measurement, and many other applications, significant measurement-system output variations are caused by the system itself. These variations can be recorded and subtracted from the measurement results to provide the required accuracy generally by recording system calibration lines with attenuation standards in the test position and reading the measurement results against these calibration lines. However, the procedure is tedious, costly, and does not lend itself to automation. The linearizer is a device for storing the system calibration and correcting for it before displaying the results. With no loss in accuracy, it provides an output curve that can be read on an ordinary rectilinear graph, used to actuate GO-NO GO switches, or automaticaly compare a test piece against a standard. Details of operation and some performance data are given for a particular analog-type linearizer and associated swept-frequency measurement system for insertion-loss or scattering coefficients. The linearizer can readily display a scale of 0.02 dB/inch with adequate stability and reproducibility. Two such linearizers can be used together to display two components of a vector or phase and amplitude, etc. Other applications are discussed and several possible approaches to an ideal system shown."
"A digital process is described for obtaining the Walsh-Fourier series of a periodic waveform, which requires at most two cycles of the waveform under measurement. The first cycle of the periodic waveform is required for the determination of period. The coefficients of the Walsh-Fourier series are obtained during the second cycle only, and they are available at the end of the cycle. Given the Walsh-Fourier coefficients of the periodic wave, the individual sine and cosine components of its Fourier series may be obtained using conversion formulas. Special features of the process are that there are no theoretical low-frequency limitations, and for an instrument with an internal clock whose frequency lies in the range 1 Hz to 1 MHz, the fundamental frequency component of a signal that can be analyzed would be in the range 1 cycle in 11.6 days to 60 Hz. Also, whereas the digital processes required to obtain a Fourier series directly are complicated by the need to multiply sample values of voltage by sines and cosines, which are themselves functions of time, determination of Walsh-Fourier coefficients is achieved very simply by using gating circuits. Generation of the required Walsh functions for a periodic signal of any fundamental frequency within the design range has been achieved."
"Two methods are proposed for obtaining the rms value of a fading signal directly and quickly from its decibel values. The level-crossing-rate method shows that the rms values of most kinds of signals are within 3 dB above the signal levels at which their maximum level crossing rates occur. The direct method shows that the difference between the average of a decibel-scale fading-signal datum and the rms value of the signal is within 2.5 dB for most of the fading signals."
"Instruments that produce pulsed eddy currents in metals have been used to measure the thickness of one metal on another and to determine the properties of metals. The currents are produced by a pulsed dipole, which is surrounded by a conducting mask with a small aperture near the metal to concentrate the field and thus provide better resolution. A pickup coil near the metal is used to detect the currents. One configuration had the pickup coil on one side of a thin metal sheet with the aperture on the other side. This was analyzed assuming a plane electromagnetic wave with the magnetic field parallel to the surface of the metal. Experimental measurements showed that the attenuation as measured was about one-tenth that predicted by the analysis. An analysis was then made assuming that the magnetic field entered the metal surface perpendicularly to the surface. The results of this analysis were compared with the experimentally obtained results with good agreement. Possibly the main reason for the failure of the earlier plane-wave analysis was the reflection at the metal surfaces."
"A broad-band remote-sensing magnetometer system has been developed for measuring fast-rising pulsed magnetic fields. Broad frequency response is achieved by frequency modulating a 1.5-GHz microwave carrier for transmission from the sensor to a remotely located receiver. The primary field probe is a ferrite-loaded coil, which produces a current proportional to the magnetic-field intensity. This current is used to frequency modulate a YIG-tuned transistor oscillator in the sensor. A traveling-wave amplifier in the receiver provides carrier amplification and amplitude limiting because it is operated in saturation mode. A new type of FM discriminator, which offers multiple-octave bandwidth potential, converts the frequency-modulated carrier to an amplitude-modulated carrier. The signal is finally detected and amplified for oscilloscope display. While the present system achieves a 50-MHz bandwidth, the system concept should be capable of extension to several times this bandwidth."
"A class of transducer oscillators is characterized by a tuning method that exchanges short-term for long-term stability, and accepts both single and differential tuning sensor capacitances. When the tuning method is applied to a restricted class of RC oscillators, the relation between tuning capacitance and oscillator period can be made linear. The effect of amplifier phase shift and distortion is analyzed and a design procedure given. In one application, an oscillator used with an air-pressure sensor is tuned from 25 to 50 ms (corresponding to 40 to 20 Hz) with a differential tuning capacitance varying from -2 to + 7 pF. The short-term stability is 80 ppm when the average of 100 periods is measured. The deviation from linearity is less than 1.5 percent of the total range."
"A single-channel pulse-height analyzer with suitable pulse-shaping circuits designed for partial-discharge measurements is described. The circuit of the pulse-height analyzer has a basic resolution limit of 1.5 μs. The unit may be used in conjunction with an RLC-type partial-discharge-detection circuit and is thus applicable to discharge measurements on high-voltage apparatus such as transformers, capacitors, and cables. Typical results, obtained with an artificial void simulated with metallic-dielectric electrodes, are presented."
"The basic designs and several applications of a ferrite-core transformer bridge that realizes a directivity better than 60 dB are described. The bridge is intended for use in IF return-loss measurements of microwave and satellite systems operating from 50 to 100 MHz. The bandwidth of the unit extends from 5 to 200 MHz. The main feature of the balanced transformer is the use of a symmetrical primary winding in which the applied signal is tightly coupled into a reversed neutralizing winding. This method virtually eliminates capacitively coupled unbalance components that normally exist in such a transformer. The applications include an unusual approach to measurement of the source impedance of a generator on its own signal. It is referred to as the amplified double-reflection method and uses a second bridge with an amplifier to provide significant improvement in obtainable resolution over conventional cable-reflection methods."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper discusses several methods of temperature compensation for shadow mask color television picture tubes. During tube operation, the shadow mask consumes as much as 20W of energy due to bombardment by the electron beams. Thus, the masks run about 200°C above the temperature of the glass envelope. This produces for the various tubes a maximum thermoexpansion in the order of 0.0025 inches. This results, of course, in beam landing shifts of a similar order of magnitude. It will be seen that by moving the mask closer to the screen a similar amount, this shift can be prevented. It will also be seen that a three-point suspension can be made without translation of the mask due to temperature change in the mask and spring mountings. Thus, the advantages of three-point definition can be utilized without any drawback. The method used is superior to the prior art, since it is the only design approach that produces a movement which is solely coaxial with the central axis of the tube; and no element is allowed to rotate on another element. Thus, frictional losses which vary widely from unit to unit are totally eliminated."
"A warm-up time of less than two seconds can be realized with picture tubes employing the described directly heated cathode assembly. Heater power requirements are low; mechanical life reliability has been demonstrated; dynamic life evaluation, while still in progress, appears to be satisfactory. Two different methods of powering the picture tube heater from the deflection circuit have been described. The first method using a link over the flyback transformer does introduce ringing from the flyback high-voltage winding into the video signal. Shielding the link reduces the ringing, but adds stray capacitance to the video circuit. The second method, using the toroidal transformer powered by the horizontal yoke current eliminates the ringing problem and has minimal effect on video bandwidth. The fast warmup characteristics of the picture tube are enhanced by the low impedance source of heater voltage obtained from the toroidal transformer."
"It has been argued that a large majority of consumer devices will be specialized systems devices. Due to of the specialized nature of these devices, it has been suggested that functional testing will alleviate correlation problems of test to systern installation and permit testing to be more readily understood. By use of test decks which incorporate provision for specialized functions, the requirement for stimuli programming can be greatly relieved. Engineering time required for development of test batteries can be kept minimal thus relieving tooling costs. Measurernent techniques may be held to a few basic methods. Modifications can be performed on the test decks to permit special schemes. Requirements will vary from device to device. Due to volume requirements and the prospective rnarket price of devices for consumer electronics, it is necessary to reduce testing costs to a minimum, The use of high-speed test machines has been proven in the past on digital devices. The economic requirements, although different, do imply that large machines are feasible for consumer devices, provided that the cost of such machines is realistic."
"This paper discusses the IC variable voltage capacitor (VVC) device design, its characteristics and application to the VHF tuner. Special measurement methods and tuner performance results are also discussed. It has been experimentally verified both by the device test data and by the VHF tuner performance results, that the multiple diffusion of VVC cells on a single substrate is feasible. The important result accomplished by this experiment is the elimination of the uneconomical matching of capacitances which is required for the discrete VVC devices. The IC VVC, as an economical tuning element, is a practical answer for future solid-state tuners."
"The principal axis frequency response of a loudspeaker is compensated using standard synthesis techniques and the desired flat response is obtained. The technique is based on a pole-zero cancellation of the loudspeaker response using integrated circuit operational amplifiers and resistance-capacitance components. Subjective tests with both male and female listeners confirm that the response is greatly improved. It is anticipated that in order to approximate an ideal frequency response for good listening, this type of compensator will be incorporated into the preamplifier."
"In summary, basic design considerations and performance records show that we should NOT design horizontal deflection amplifiers just with one characteristic in mind. To attempt high cathode current per unit area of the cathode coating results in more remote grid control, therefore, requiring greater grid drive. Due to the very high voltages encountered, spacings are very critical for a tube as large as most horizontal deflection tubes are. Therefore, to design very long structures, with the probable difficulties in spacing accuracy is a move in the wrong direction. To squeeze down spacings of elements generally, then raise plate pulse voltages several kilovolts, is again not a good answer. While it appears that a cavity trap structure is best for present needs, and forseeable future needs, one singlekind, dimensionally, probably will not be an across the board answer. There will be still a need for several different types. If future horizontal deflection tubes can be designed with some of these concepts in mind, the reliability will increase substantially, and the cost held reasonable. If the designers of horizontal circuitry can see some of the problems involved, perhaps they can consider the results of a circuit change or design, thereby, increasing the reliability of the entire deflection system. As an example, to have the load line excessively far to the left will force tube design in the direction of too low a knee which will run the screen current higher hence less reliability as was explained earlier."
"The basic principle of a new solid-state deflection system is described as it developed from previous known principles. The new circuit operates from the rectified line voltage and uses as switches silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCRs) in combination with short-lifetime silicon rectifier diodes. The description of the basic circuit follows its adaptation into a color television receiver with its associated auxiliary circuitry."
"Cascaded amplifier stages are commonly found today in both the discrete and integrated circuit applications. The circuit designer would like to simplify the complex problem of analysis and design and wind up with an equivalent circuit expressed in terms of readily available parameters. To accomplish this, various building block amplifier stages are considered. The composite equivalent circuit of the various building block amplifiers are presented in their exact and approximate forms in terms of common emitter \"y\" parameters. An example of this technique is used in the analysis of a 45 MHz integrated circuit amplifier."
"The theory of FM discriminators is presented by expanding its transfer function into Taylor's series, and the application of the results to the typical FM discriminators (slope discriminator, Travis discriminator, Foster-Seeley discriminator, and line discriminator) is added. The output signal of the FM discriminator expressed by Taylor's expansion shows the clear relationship between the fundamental and the harmonics. The design equations obtained from this analysis enable a designer to construct FM discriminators which will provide a desired low distortion performance."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In this paper a new tuning-meter for diode-tuned FM and AM broadcast receivers is presented. It makes use of the light-conducting properties of clear plastic strips. Design and operation of the new instrument are described and information about technical data is given."
"Applying hypersensitive capacitance diodes we are faced with a wide spread of different capacitance-vs-voltage characteristics. This leads to severe problems for the calibration of dials of AM-broadcast-receivers with tuning diodes of very high capacitance ratios. A frequency-to-voltage converter solves this problem. The frequency of the local oscillator of the tuner is converted into a linearly proportional dc-voltage by a simple circuit. This dc-voltage is indicated by a meter with a linear frequency scale."
"The requirement for a power amplifier that is universally applicable and that can be fabricated through the use of thick-film technology has been fulfilled by the development of a unique circuit that operates over a wide supply-voltage range, works from single or split supplies, drives many different kind of loads, and is protected from load-fault conditions."
"The application of linear medium scale integration principles to the color TV receiver has led to an economical monolithic integrated circuit which performs the functions of 3.58 MHz color signal reference generation and chroma demodulation. Operation of the circuit in either an APC reference loop, burst injection locked oscillator mode or as a crystal ringing amplifier allows the receiver designer the necessary flexibility to meet his goals. Furthermore, a wide latitude in colorimetry can be achieved by proper choice of relatively few external components. The monolithic circuit, which measures 44 × 58 mils, contains reactance control element, reference amplifier/oscillator, buffering stages to provide signals for phase detector and color kill functions, and two demodulators. Utilization of this IC in the various color TV receiver systems is discussed."
"This paper describes a low-level detector intended primarily for video IF detection in TV sets and designed specifically for integrated circuit fabrication. The device is a detector for amplitude modulated signals with up to 100% modulation, giving a low distortion high level, wideband output for small input signals. The detection is full-wave synchronous, or doubly-balanced, giving rejection of carrier components in the input signal. When used as a TV video IF detector, where the carrier frequency is in the 40-50 MHz range, the unwanted products of detection are high enough in frequency to be lost in the internal capacitance of the device, with the output comprising only the wanted video signal. A built-in suppression of chroma-sound intercarrier beat greatly eases the sound trapping requirements. The principle behind the device is not new, but the integrated circuit structure used is novel and has many advantages over a discrete approach."
"A transistorized, direct current coupled red blue green cathode ray tube drive circuit for use with an integrated circuit color demodulator is described. This circuit meets the requirements of temperature stability, gain, bandwidth and ease of cathode ray tube gray scale tracking adjustment necessary in a high quality large production color television receiver. Special attention is given to the uniformity of frequency response of the three outputs, as well as to the manner in which gray scale tracking is accomplished."
"Investigation was conducted on the evaluation of various solid-state devices with particular emphasis on signal-handling capability (cross-modulation performance) and the circuit techniques for filtering the interfering signals for VHF TV tuners. From this investigation, some clear requirements are ascertained as to the selection of the solid-state devices and to the circuitry for the VHF TV tuners. On the basis of these requirements, a high performance solid-state tuner was developed whose performance surpasses that of tube equipped tuners in all respects except gain."
"A monolithic integrated circuit which performs the subcarrier regeneration task in a color television receiver is described. Differential amplifier configurations are used in a novel circuit concept which involves time-sharing and current switching techniques. The result is a realization of the design objectives with a relatively simple structure. The burst gate, phase detector and voltage controlled oscillator functions called for by the classical APC loop are provided. In addition, an in-phase detector for color killing and chroma AGC is included, as well as a novel DC controlled hue adjustment."
"This article establishes a lower bound for the noise figure of two networks in cascade. This is illustrated by means of a passive low-level frequency converter which utilizes a back diode as a nonlinear conductance. Other investigators have analyzed the properties of low-level frequency converters. However, the greatest lower bound of a combination of the converter and intermediate frequency amplifier system was not considered previously and is the subject of this paper. Knowledge of this lower bound has practical significance because if a measured value of noise figure is less than this lower bound, it follows that the measurement is in error. For illustrative purposes a lower bound is established on one of the highest quality systems available, employing a special General Electric diode as a frequency converter for the first network, and a 60 MHz IF amplifier for the second network. This resulted in a noise figure lower bound of 3.86 db for the overall system. This paper shows how this lower bound was obtained. Also the controversial right angle diode characteristic is found to be undesirable from an impedance viewpoint."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents the radical view that training manpower to satisfy the needs of industry or government is not the purpose of engineering education. Rather, the focus is the individual student, his needs, his development, his fulfillment. Often the needs of the individual are not compatible with the needs of the corporation or of government; in such cases the latter should yield. The curriculum should be designed with this outlook."
"This paper presents the first computer-aided experiment on learning control which took place in Europe at the Faculte des Sciences de Paris. The teaching objectives, the level and the needs of the interaction (dialogue, open answers, feedback to the student) are described in the first part of this paper. Then the computer configuration is given and the technical solut'ions decided are discussed. The third part of the paper deals with the man-machine communication problem to which has been given great importance in the definition of the experiment. Some examples showing either the way the course is described and put into the system or the dialogue between the computer and a student are included in the paper."
"A new introductory sequence in engineering electromagnetics is described. Its novel features include an axiomatic development of electromagnetic theory, the application of transform analysis to the solution of the important partial differential equations, and the use of engineering terminology in developing a distributed systems viewpoint. The sequence establishes a close relationship among electromagnetics, circuits, and system theory, and has been used successfully at the University of Iowa for the past three years."
"This paper describes an efficient version of NASAP (Network Analysis for Systems Application Program) that has been developed by Northeastern University for batch and on-line solution of circuit problems. Problem coding, using a free-form input format, may be facilitated by use of mark-sense cards. The program provides a multiple-transfer function representation of a linear, lumpedparameter network. Output options useful to the student or designer include routines for frequency and time response and parameter sensitivity."
"Presently the design of digital systems as treated in undergraduate engineering programs is restricted to one of two environmental levels, software or hardware, with little pedagogical effort directed at uniting these levels. This paper introduces the concept of a systems level of study at which environmental level considerations become special case treatments of a generalized design procedure. This procedure is called the parse-implement (systems level-environmental level) design approach. The features of this approach are outlined with the presentation of six fundamental considerations of digital system design within the context of the systems level language. The applicability of this approach is demonstrated by means of an example design problem for which both a hardware and a software solution are generated. The usefulness of this approach as a means of teaching design is also demonstrated by these examples."
"The advent of the fast Fourier transform method has greatly extended our ability to implement Fourier methods on digital computers. A description of the alogorithm and its programming is given here and followed by a theorem relating its operands, the finite sample sequences, to the continuous functions they often are intended to approximate. An analysis of the error due to discrete sampling over finite ranges is given in terms of aliasing. Procedures for computing Fourier integrals, convolutions and lagged products are outlined."
"Any N-pole linear lumped-constant time-invariant network can be represented by a linear homogeneous difference equation. If an arbitrary input waveform is sampled at equally spaced time intervals, so that eight or more samples are available at the highest significant frequency present, the output waveform can be computed in a simple manner from the difference equation. If K input samples are to be filtered, the saving in computer time, when compared to the usage of the convolution integral, is equal to K. The method is illustrated by the simulation of an FM receiver, operating at threshold, in the presence of Gaussian noise."
"When a good circuit designer lays out a new circuit, he isolates those functions which are more or less self-contained and puts them in separate modules. This not only has the advantages of simplification, flexibility, and easier maintenance, but it also enables the designer to take advantage of whatever off-the-shelf modules he can obtain. A good programmer plans his programs the same way, dividing the operations up into black boxes called subroutines or procedures. What black boxes should he expect to be able to get \"off-the-shelf\"? This paper deals with the type of numerical calculations an electrical engineer is likely to do, and describes fourteen kinds of computations for which he could expect to find black boxes to do the job. In addition, ten kinds of computations are described for which he should not look for black boxes, as either they do not exist or they are hopelessly inadequate."
"The application of electronic technology to the most profound of man's tasks, that of education, provides both the opportunity for realizing lifelong, experiential learning as well as the possibility of yielding unpredicted social consequences. The use of high-speed digital computers and teaching machines is outlined and the growing power for cultural communication and control is discussed. Some possible social consequences of automated learning are examined and the need for the consideration of social, human, and educational values is presented. Finally, a university lecture course entitled \"Engineering and the Technological Society\" which is presented for students majoring in Liberal Arts, Business, Science, or Engineering at the University of Santa Clara and which considers the consequences and potential of educational technology is outlined."
"The Q (quality factor) of the widely used two-branch resonant circuit is derived and comparisons are made with the term Qo = ωoL/R that is often used as the Q of the circuit."
"Operator shift methods in differential equations theory have analogies in difference equations theory. These techniques may be useful in finding the complementary solution and often the particular solution, as well as in providing insight into the relation between the roots of the characteristic equation and the form of the solution."
"A questionnaire was distributed to a selected sample of the engineering faculties of ten midwestern state universities in order to determine faculty opinions with regard to mathematics in the undergraduate engineering curriculum. Results are given for both the overall response and for the response from electrical engineering faculty only."
"As a result of an increased utilization of the digital computer in Fourier analysis applied to engineering problems, the asymptotic behavior of the Fourier transform is becoming increasingly important. This paper presents a heuristic and detailed proof of a rather fundamental theorem bearing on this behavior, with the hope that this will engender greater emphasis on this technique in engineering curricula."
"With the advent of the computer, engineering education had to be altered to accommodate the use of the computer as an engineering tool. Being aware of this need, the Electronic Engineering Department at Monmouth College, West Long Branch, N. J., has developed and is experimenting with a course which prepares students to use both the analog and the digital computer in engineering analysis. The content, purpose, development and laboratory facilities utilized in this course are described. The principal emphasis in the course is on the use of the computer as a tool in analysis and design."
"Special methods are generally used to evaluate the partial fraction constants corresponding to the repeated poles of a proper fraction. Here it is shown by example that the normal method is easily extended to cover this situation; the procedure is useful pedogogically as an introduction to the Goldstone method."
"A survey was conducted on the availability of high-voltage educational laboratories in the universities of various countries. The purpose of the survey was to establish whether education in this area of electrical engineering has kept pace with industrial growth. The results show that in the United States only five such laboratories are known to be in active existence. These are not used for instruction but only for research. Elsewhere, 70 percent of all institutional laboratories were built after 1960. The survey has also revealed many interesting and surprising figures regarding the use, the equipment, the size, and the staff of their laboratories. It is concluded that a great need for such facilities to ameliorate the quality of instruction and research in high-voltage engineering exists in the United States."
"Many ideas lose much of their abstractness and take on a real, physical meaning to a student if he can construct examples of his own. This paper outlines a method which is easily applied for constructing such examples as matrices to describe various aspects of a system whose elements have a sequential ordering. Several examples are included."
"This paper deals with the generalization of the Clarke components to polyphase current and voltage systems. Two definitions are proposed and their relative merits are discussed. It is shown that the second definition is to be preferred, since it is not only valid for completely symmetrical networks, but also for networks containing elements with only partial symmetry, such as the stator of an electric machine or an untransposed polyphase transmission line. The considerations of this paper may be used in the classroom to provide the student with a complete understanding of the principles of the decomposition techniques of polyphase quantities."
"By using feedback around an infinite-gain controlled source four finite-gain controlled sources may be simulated. Cascading two of these yields other types of controlled sources. New configurations are obtained by compensating imperfect controlled sources and also by using a negative resistance in the feedback loop. By making use of the singular elements (nullator and norator), some alternative configurations are derived, raising interesting possibilities for network synthesis techniques which employ controlled sources. Finally, replacing infinite-gain controlled sources by operational amplifiers yields practical circuits."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Concern for effective teaching in engineering appeared almost simultaneously with the inception of engineering education in this country, some 135 years ago, as seen in statements made by the first head of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. To place in perspective current efforts toward the teaching and training of engineers and to stress the significance of such endeavors, aspects of the evolution of efforts to foster and enhance engineering teaching are described. Pedagogical training for engineering teachers was proposed by persons such as early presidents of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education; but it was strong recommendations from that Society's four self-studies that appeared responsible for gradual development of formal programs. Under sponsorship of the American Society for Engineering Education (successor to the SPEE), the current \"institutes on effective teaching\" activities began with a series of two-week summer institutes, at Pennsylvania State University, during the summers of 1960-63. At the tennination of this series it was concluded that many more engineering teachers could participate through a number of regional institutes. Hence the ASEE promoted and developed a number of short-term institutes at various institutions throughout the country and, in 1967-68, inaugurated a system of Regional Institutes on Effective Teaching which are expected to become a regular and continuing part of engineering education and which should constitute evidence of the profession's historical concern for teachers \"qualified for giving instruction....\""
"A one-semester integrated microelectronics projects laboratory for junior-level electrical engineering students is described, which serves to educate the student in the physics and technology of microelectronics. The first third of the course is devoted to prescribed introductory experiments. In the final two-thirds of the semester, the student pursues a project of his own design. The curriculum of a first-year graduate course in microelectronics is also outlined."
"In the senior communication theory course at Purdue University, instructional material which was formerly handled in a lecture-type preparation session is now being presented individually to students by means of audio tape recordings. Features of the audio tutorial method of instruction are discussed, with emphasis on the advantages and flexibility the method affords in laboratory instruction. The interplay between taped material, written notes and instructor activities is also discussed. Information for those interested in obtaining a sample audio tutorial tape is given at the end of the paper."
"The increased use of linear integrated circuit amplifiers, which require feedback stabilization, has resulted in increased emphasis on teaching feedback techniques to undergraduates. This paper describes the method used at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn to teach juniors how to analyze and design feedback circuits. We have found that these students can, after taking the course, analyze and design complicated feedback circuits, and test feedback amplifiers to determine (and adjust) the feedback present in an amplifier. The procedure presented in this paper is different from that used by other instructors in that we teach by example. Therefore, we do not use a block diagram approach which students have difficulty in relating to real amplifiers, but instead analyze and design actual circuits. Generality is sacrificed for clarity."
"A simple but effective method for extracting periodic signals from noise is discussed, and experimental results of its implementation are given. This method (integration or storage), while only one of many ways in which such signals may be recovered from noise, has the advantage that it is easy to explain and to mechanize and thus is particularly useful in undergraduate signal theory courses and laboratory work. While certain of the components must be designed and constructed, most of the required equipment is readily available in the typical electrical engineering laboratory. The amount of design that is required can be varied and is consistent with undergraduate training. This allows the student to become involved in the planning and construction of the signal extraction system and should be helpful in stimulating the student's interest in random processes which continue to receive increased emphasis. Using the simple system described, it is possible to recover signals that are far below the noise level. A noise-to-signal power ratio of 100:1 presents no difficulties (provided the signal amplitude is sufficiently large) and limited results are given where the noise-tosignal ratio is 2500:1."
"Engineering education is based on a concept that is not consistent with reality. The emphasis on mathematics and the neglect of the practical creates the irrational situation described by Moore [1] inwhichanexpert onenergyconversion couldfreeze todeath in a lumberyard because he doesn't know how to light a fire. The paper uses a concept known to Aristotle to describe what we have been doing and to show why it is no longer effective. The paper establishes a new model and shows that it is consistent with reality. Using the June, 1968, issue of this TRANSACTIONS as an example, the paper shows the value of the model as a point of reference in judging the validity of proposed changes in the electrical engineering curriculum."
"The use of computer-aided analysis enhances classroom learning. A feedback amplifier problem has been structured to exhibit the fundamental differences between feedback amplifiers and their nonfeedback equivalents. Such classroom exercises enable students to bypass a multitude of arithmetic calculations and focus their attention on the basic underlying principles."
"Methods of statistical interference including estimation and modem filter theory are finding ever-increasing application in electrical engineering problems. Two problems which occur when methods of modem estimation theory are applied to a physical problem are the choice of prior statistics and the choice of a mathematical model for the system. This paper provides a fundamental and tutorial discussion of the role of error analysis, sensitivity, and prior statistics in classical point estimation. Thus, it provides the framework for study and research into varied aspects of this problem in more difficult and realistic situations."
"This paper compares two ways of solving Laplace's equation for reasonably intractable boundary conditions. It is pointed out that the exact method, using the Schwarz-Christoffel transformation, may not be the more suitable, either for teaching or for practical purposes. It is felt that the availability of digital computers encourages numerical methods, which are simpler to use and easier to understand."
"Earlier work on sampled-data theory has extended the powerful technique of frequency response analysis to discrete systems. It is shown in this paper that the development to date has been inadequate in explaining the behavior of sampled systems under sinusoidal excitation. For purely discrete systems, replacing s with jω in Laplace and Z forms is satisfactory. However, for discrete-continuous systems, a more complete analysis is necessary. In the present work, impulse sampling is considered as a suppressed carrier modulation process where input sinusoidal components appear as sidebands about the sampling frequency and all of its integer multiples. Thus, signal behavior at the output of continuous elements may be interpreted in terms of these spectral components. This approach provides a deeper insight into the sampling process and raises some interesting questions about the meaning of frequency response."
"Some students have difficulty during initial discussions in understanding the differences between frequency shift keying and square-wave frequency modulation. This article describes a problem for student assignment which is designed to assist the student who lacks, to some degree, this understanding. The problem consists of a requirement for calculating the spectra for three different, but related, deterministic signals. The article describes the signals and gives a solution."
"A bridge is constructed between the concept of mutual inductance and available transformer data to enable the construction of simple ECAP transformer models."
"Plotting algebraic functions on a computer printer is useful for student and teacher alike. The three subroutines presented simplify the process; they perform functions similar to subroutines described earlier [1], but are only 5 percent as long."
"The author points out why row vectors should be used in matrix equations for cascade systems. The use of the popular column vectors for this purpose causes considerable trouble. With row vectors, the matrices and the black boxes of the diagram are in the same order naturally, while with column vectors they can only be brought into such order by artificial means, such as inverse transfer functions and backward signal flow graphs."
"The \"systems approach\" is finding wide application in a large variety of situations. This paper discusses the essential property of this approach: that of seeking to optimize the overall system functions in accordance with specified objectives, and of achieving the best compatibility among its parts. Systems engineering constitutes one of the major components of the systems approach. An important step in the systems engineering methodology involves either mathematical or physical modelling Difficulties encountered in the formulation of the models are discussed."
"The x2 distribution may be directly measured in a simple experiment using random numbers. The experiment provides a useful aid to the understanding of \"significance\" in statistics."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A regional approach to transistor design is presented which makes possible the determination of transistor gain hFE for any transistor (doping profile specified) operating at any given values of emitter current IE and collector-to-emitter voltage VCE. This approach extends the classical diffusion theory of transistors to include conductivity modulation, voltage-controlled base motion, and current-controlled base motion (base widening). Due to the simplicity of this technique, time-sharing computer techniques were used. This allowed for user interaction, making this approach very attractive for education as well as design. The regional approach is a likely candidate for satisfying the needs for the device designer (it contains device performance versus doping profile), the circuit designer (it allows determination of equivalent circuit models from knowledge of the electron and hole densities throughout the device), and the academic world (it is simple and physical). It is anticipated that the regional approach will allow engineers to develop a \"feel\" for transistor behavior under wide ranges of operating conditions."
"To make more efficient use of the computer as an aid in obtaining linear small signal circuit models, a method of successive approximation is presented and used to obtain a variety of circuit models. Several useful search strategies are presented and specific examples illustrate their use in deriving better approximations from an initial starting point. The relative merits of various search strategies are compared to furnish guidelines for future use. The modeling techniques are also applied to specific resistor and transistor characterization problems. The hybrid-pi model for the transistor is developed in a way which allows considerable flexibility in the inclusion of parasitic effects. A final example models a practical amplifier at frequencies up to UHF."
"The paper presents a general approach to the modeling of linear integrated circuits for computer-aided analysis in the frequency domain. The modeling is done through black boxes whose internal details are ignored and which are characterized only at their external terminals. Lumped and distributed, ideal and experimentally characterized multiterminal devices can be handled. The mathematical characterization is the indefinite admittance matrix. The implementation of the methods discussed is very simple, since no topological matrices are required. The method lends itself to analyzing large circuits by tearing them and then reconnecting the pieces. The method has been implemented in a program entitled BELNAP. A transient counterpart BELTIP and a design program IMPROVE have been in use by designers at Bell Laboratories for some time. An example circuit is solved in detail in the paper using BELNAP."
"Circuit models are developed from the physical behavior of transformers. The models contain passive elements and controlled sources which are directly useful in computer analysis programs, and which the designer can use a readily as transistor and vacuum-tube models. Linear models are developed for ideal and perfect transformers and for lossy transformers. A piecewise linear model is developed for saturable reactors. The development is carried out for the generalized n-winding transformer. The parameters of the circuit model are related to winding and core parameters to facilitate transformer selection and design."
"A simple electromechanical device called a tunnel diode motor was described in the \"Amateur Scientist\" section of the Scientific American [1]. From the construction details presented there a prototype was built with the idea that this would make a good example for the classroom. It has since been used twice in a graduate level course in digital computer simulation. This device has served well to illustrate typical problems in modeling and the automatic numerical solution of model equations."
"The student use of batch on-line teletypewriter and graphical display facilities for circuit design at the University of Michigan is discussed. This includes batch use of GCA programs, teletypewriter use at the elementary algorithmic level, and display use for man-machine and automatic iterative design. Focus is placed on the economics of each level of design and on student reactions."
"This paper describes the philosophy, application, and implementation of a collection of FORTRAN IV computer programs currently being used in a sophomore course on nonlinear circuit analysis at Purdue University. Since these programs were developed from the education rather than the user point of view, some of them were deliberately designed in the form of a series of subroutines, and were stored in a common disk file. These subroutines and programs are used to analyze a large class of nonlinear electronic circuits such as waveshaping networks, multivibrators, time-base generators, etc. Since the computer is used to take over only the nonconceptual but otherwise very time-consuming task, the students were found to be much more receptive and motivated in learning new concepts. The results reported in this paper are based on the experiences and reactions of approximately 150 students using the batch-processing mode. A short description, however, is also given on a forthcoming experiment to be conducted at Purdue University on the merits of using an on-line graphic display console."
"Computer programs which allow interactionbetweenthe user and the machine in the design of linear circuits have been used by students of a graduate course in computer-aided circuit design. These programs, which enable the determination of circuit element nominal values to realize responses within specified constraints, have been operated both with batch processing and on-line through commercial time sharing utilities. Student experience with each mode of operation is described, including student reaction, relative gains through each type of operation, problems encountered, and exportability of this work to other schools and machines. Use of a typical interactive program for on-line design of an ac circuit is described in detail."
"The purpose of this paper is to point out the advantages and disadvantages of using an on-line graphical computer for graduate student research. The system itself consists of an IBM 2250 model I graphic console operating through IBM 360/40,/75, and /91 computers. It was hoped that this would provide an interactive graphical system permitting the student to solve his dissertation problems in a novel fashion. The experience gained in this endeavor and the methodology which the student might develop could prove to be even more valuable than the solution of the problem itself and would constitute an integral part of his thesis. The paper reports on the work carried out for a Master's thesis and for a Ph. D. dissertation. The former consisted of an attempt to solve nonlinear programming problems in n dimensions by searching for the optima on a CRT screen exhibiting contour lines and constraints in two variables, the others being varied by on-line control. The other application consisted of developing a simulation language allowing for on-line graphical displays and interaction, and applying this language to the design and analysis of a complex digital computer system consisting, in particular, of a variable number of time shared consoles. The results of this work clearly showed the convenience of an interactive graphic system while underlining the difficulties experienced in operating either with an inherently slow system or a powerful system slowed down by batch background operation."
"The availability of rapid on-line computational facilities has forced a major revision of our course on multistage transistor amplifiers. Approximate methods of analysis are now no longer helpful: the exact gain and bandwidth can be readily calculated on a computer. However, previously derived approximate relations for bandwidth can be inverted to provide excellent first-order design equations. The resulting first-cut design can then be checked on a computer and modified, if necessary, to more closely meet the design specifications. By using a time-shared computer facility (APL) 1 we have been able for the first time to involve the students in a meaningful and exciting way in the design of sophisticated multistage transistor amplifiers."
"The objective in the courses described herein was to teach circuit analysis, optimization, and design in a way that recognizes the important role of computers, but does not become overpowered by the myriad subtleties and irrationalities of real-world computers. This paper discusses the author's experience in using existing interactive computer facilities to teach graduate and undergraduate circuits subjects, and suggests promising directions in which to go and not to go. Questions raised concern the role of omnibus circuit analysis programs, if any, how to teach numerical analysis without quite, time-sharing economics, and the use of a computer in teaching machine mode someday."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A description is given of the use of computer-aided circuit design programs in undergraduate education. The development of the NASAP program as a cooperative effort of universities and industry is presented. An example of the use of NASAP in the solution of an electromechanical problem is included."
"The CDC 3600 version of NASAP released by NASA has been rewritten in F level FORTRAN IV for use on the IBM 360/40 Disc Operating System. This version of the program incorporates features useful in courses emphasizing the design of networks. The phase or magnitude of a transfer function can be specified and printer plots of the specified and obtained transfer functions as well as the error between the two can be obtained. In addition, a rerun feature that permits the modification of any number of element values has been added. Cooperation with other workers using NASAP has aided in debugging the program and determining its limitations. A brief description of a senior level course in network design using general analysis programs is included."
"Signal flow-graph techniques provide not only numeric but also symbolic expressions for network functions in terms of component parameters; these procedures are also useful in obtaining sensitivity coefficients. The paper presents the method of analysis of circuits using signal flow-graphs. The development includes the determination of transfer functions, sensitivity coefficients, worst case analysis and tolerance analysis. Two examples illustrate the method."
"A program for the detection of loops in a circuit analysis is presented. This program, a FORTRAN routine entitled LOOPS, is the heart of the UCLA version of NASAP (Network Analysis for Systems Applications Program). In order to study the execution of LOOPS, it has been subjected to an automatic instrumentation process developed at UCLA. Results of this analysis are presented showing the most time-consuming portions of the routine and other performance measurements."
"This tutorial paper presents an introduction to the application of hybrid computation and optimization to the direct design of linear dynamic circuits using a simple optimization technique that does not require sophisticated computer programming. The chief merit of such simple techniques is that the user can easily verify the execution by stepping through the program in a manner that permits him to mentally check the logical decisions implemented by the optimization algorithm. This type of operation is economically feasible because of the development of a hybrid computer system which permits these techniques to be demonstrated at minimum capital cost."
"In this paper some aspects of the relation between the state of the art and the way of teaching in the field of switching theory are described. Some critical comments and suggestions concerning the contemporary way of teaching switching theory are presented."
"A way of teaching combinatorial logic is presently based on experimentation with physical models of logical relations (\"logical instruments\"). The Marquand chart [7] originated in 1881 is described and discussed. A graphical representation of a Boolean function on that chart is processed by experimental application of \"implication masks.\" As an example of such a processing, the paper describes the construction of a minimal Σπ-form of a given Boolean function (by respecting DON'T-CARE conditions). The main part of the minimization algorithm is based on a sufficient condition of extension (of the expression (9) towards the minimal), which is satisfied if a certain \"necessary condition of extension\" does hold and if a certain \"sufficient condition of exclusion\" does not. To save processing time, a weight is assigned to each point on the chart where the Boolean function must be 1 (true). Then the minimization algorithm is applied, with a preference to points with smaller weights. Logical punch cards are used as a logical instrument for experimental evaluation of weights."
"Instruction in the concepts as well as the design techniques of digital systems, including computers, can be considerably facilitated by demonstration. The hardware equipment required for such demonstration in a comprehensive course covering many systems and techniques may be very expensive. One solution to the cost problem is to simulate the systems to be studied using programs written for a general purpose digital computer, which normally is readily available. The instructional aids described are based on systems whose simulation programs are written in a compiler language as well as a language specifically developed for the simulation of digital systems. In summary, the design of digital systems and computers can be made more meaningful through the aid of such digital simulation programs."
"Computer technology has provided a means by which large amounts of data may be accumulated and reduced to graphical form. The advantages of this type of computer output are considered and illustrated by means of two applications of particular interest to engineers. The utilization of computer drawn flow charts is discussed and some of the logical and technical problems involved are examined; characteristics of available programs are compared. The procedures of graphical data plotting and the available routines are then discussed and curricular applications are considered."
"The Laplace transform of a function can be recognized as the result of a finite number of operations perforned on the transform of a simple function. The rules governing the permissible sequences of operation have been established previously. The resultant algorithms have been used to teach Laplace transform techniques and have been applied in the derivation of transforms. From these algorithms a computer program has been developed to transform analytically from the t to the s domain. A brief survey of the algorithms is followed by a description of the program logic and grammar. Examples are given to illustrate the capabilities and limitations of the program. Possible applications and extensions of the program are discussed."
"For pedagogical reasons, classroom examples of analysis are usually performed symbolically. A student can frequently attain insight as to the relative effects of various circuit elements when they have symbolic labels. A prototype program has been devised which is capable of determining symbolic equations for a class of circuits. The equations are written in FORTRAN type notation. Although the original intention of the program was to determine circuit state equations, several other applications exist. For instance, dc analysis, such as that which is required for steady-state analysis, may be performed. If a circuit is linear, it is possible to obtain a transfer function for which the s polynomial coefficients are symbolic. Transient responses often yield information which is not discernible from symbolic relationships. For this reason, a companion program which integrates the state equations determined by the preceding program has been written. Currently, the integration routine must be run separately by the user. This entails the insertion of the state equations and other integration control statements. It is believed that a program which relieves the user from this task will be available by the time this paper is published. Numerical examples are also included in the paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Translation, whether literary or technical, is a creative art, not a mechanical process, and machines have failed to give useful translations of serious texts for this reason. The conventional distinctions between \"literary\" and \"technical\" translation are misleading and perhaps false. Literal or word-for-word translations are not translations at all and their use should be discouraged. Translation requires a full command of both languages and some understanding of the subject. Quality is difficult for a layman to judge, but idiomatic English (or whatever the target language is) is one good sign, and there are others."
"Modern data processing equipment is explored for its usefulness in indexing, editing, and revising written documents. Incidental attention is given to a number of other textual-processing functions. Particular emphasis is given to possible uses of the computer to evaluate readability and to detect misspellings and a variety of other disallowed wordage. An experiment is reported in which 2000 abstracts from the technical literature were scanned for roundabout prepositional phrases. Counts of frequency of usage are reported, and four phrases were found to occur with particular frequency."
"Compressed speech or \"speed listening\" may be a solution to some of the problems created by the information explosion. Speech has been shown to be comprehensible up to twice normal speed or better. Rapid presentation is efficient in terms of information processed per listening time, and does not hinder retention of subject matter. With a small amount of training, both children and adults of widely different intellectual abilities can understand compressed speech. In education or in industry, systematic practical use may require greater attention to preparation of material than the use of conventional methods of delivery, but the potential benefits to educators and engineers are great."
"Some theoretical guidelines are given for answering such questions as: How long should the paper be? Before what audience should I present it? And, how far should I go to give it?"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Transcriptions of the major papers presented at the Symposium \"Where Is Technology Leading Communications?\" appear in this issue of the EWS Transactions. John Phillips, Associate Editor of the Transactions, attended all of the sessions and has prepared this paper, in which he views the Symposium in perspective for those who did not attend or whose interest in detail is not sufficient to justify their reading all of the papers in full. Schedule restrictions did not permit Mr. Phillips to read the transcripts of the papers; his paper is based on memory and notes taken during the talks, question-and-answer periods, and discussions at the end of each session."
"I have tried to give you an over-all picture of what is meant by computerized typesetting so that you can better understand where each system you will hear described fits into the picture. All of the speakers will be describing operational systems. The use of the computer in typesetting has passed the experimental stage and is only beginning to be fully exploited. I am sure we are all aware of the cost and time lapse from the original draft of a manuscript to the delivery of the finished product. With proper utilization of the computer in the editorial operation and the capturing of the data in machine-readable language at the source, much can be done to reduce the cost of composition, and publications can be produced with more current data. One word of caution: the kind of work to be produced on these systems must be carefully selected. High-speed computerized photocomposition has not solved all of the problems in the typesetting industry. It is very easy at the present time to become completely bogged down in programming costs that might never be recovered. Just as the most economical press to print a publication is determined by the quality required, the sheet size of the stock, the binding method, and the quantity, so must a typesetting job be analyzed to determine the most economical method of production. Keep abreast of changes taking place in the industry by reading the trade journals."
"The author gives his insight into all of the elements of good audio productions, from the need for a fairly professional master tape right up through the proper delivery system to present one's program to the listener. The most important is the first step: deciding what can and can't be presented well with audio, and when to bring other back-up media into the production as well. It is emphasized that when one selects any medium for communication, be it human, print, audio-visual, or whatever, one should try always to select it because it is the best particular medium to carry that particular kind of information to the person who has to receive and understand the communication. It's all too easy to stick with the system that you like best, or you're most used to. The art of communication should be a two-way street, but one cannot assume that the person one is trying to reach will meet you half way. One should give plenty of thought to the kind of system that will get you all the way to him."
"Advertisement."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The engineer may be called upon to write product announcements for his company and although in some cases he may have available professional public relations advice, in other cases he must proceed virtually alone. This paper briefly describes the type of content, style, and format of such announcements that trade journal editors are most likely to publish, and touches on some widely used company procedures established to ensure that legal and proprietary considerations are not neglected."
"Sources of information for electrical and electronics engineers have been studied by looking at 1965 IEEE publications to see what periodicals, books, conferences, etc., were cited. Cited journals have been ranked as information sources by the number of times they were cited as references. The data for 1965 have been compared with corresponding data for 1949 and 1934 to examine trends in volume and characteristics of reference information, country of publication, and age of reference."
"We shall never improve the general quality of technical and scientific writing until it is liberated from the unwritten rule that prohibits the use of personal pronouns. This superstition made possible-if not inevitable-the development of the \"technical style\" of writing, the most unreadable and unnatural prose in the literature of the English-speaking world. Many of our problems in technical writing-verbosity, obscurity, pomposity, awkwardness, and a dozen other ills-could be relieved or eliminated if writers would accept the idea that personal pronouns are as much a natural part of communicating ideas on paper as they are in talking. Will that day ever come?"
"A comparison of different concepts of style and the amount of detail considered necessary in a technical report, presented from the authors' and the editors' viewpoints, culminating with a discussion of the compromises necessary to meet a crash schedule-written in the form of a short, humorous play suitable for presentation at symposia and conventions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The geological origin of the vast alluvial Ganges plain is sketched as the filled-in foredeep of the Himalayan mountains. The prevalence offamine conditions there, in spite of the excellent soil and year-round growing season and good ground water supply, is noted. Prof. Stout's diagnosis in terms of the need for energy from external nonagricultural sources is set forth. An example employing a 1000 Mwe power plant and grid for irgation pumping and nitrogen fixation, together with an improved strain of wheat from Mexico, is presented and some rough cost and benefit estimates are made. It appears that this single project, providing one additional crop each year on a tenth of the cultivated land, could lift the entire 200 million people of the Ganges Valley from semistarvation to a healthful diet level"
"This paper begins with a review of those high energy accelerators which are now in operation. Accelerators under construction are discussed and very high energy machines, still far in the future, are listed and described. Possible uses of cryogenic and superconducting magnets are mentioned. Colliding beam projects in operation and planned are presented. High energy physics has become very expensive. The total investment in Brookhaven's 33-GeV accelerator complex is now over $60 million and is still rising. Merely to operate the accelerator and its experimental areas requires the services of over 400 people. Our power bill is about $1 million per year. All of this is to produce new knowledge, very fundamental in nature but without evident immediate application. With the budget of the United States in a state of unbalance and with growing sentiment that money spent should show immediate results, is it wise or even sensible to think of new and more expensive steps along the route to the solution of the many mysteries of the nucleus and its components? I think that it is wise and that frontier fields like that of high energy physics must be pursued vigorously if we are to maintain our intellectual and technical position in the world. Sooner or later our experimental results will have important impacts on our life, probably in quite unforeseeable fashions. Nuclear physics began its history before the turn of the century; only in the last two decades has it resulted in a new power industry."
"A neutron factory is likely to sell its product in the form of isotopes. Today neutron factories are nuclear reactors. Ion accelerators may also produce isotopes by direct interaction and, at high enough energies, mesons and hyperons. The challenge of the electrical production of neutrons goes far beyond the isotope market. It challenges the two popular concepts for long term large scale energy, the fast breeder reactor and controlled thermonuclear fusion. For this use about 4% of nuclear generated power would be applied in a feedback loop generating extra neutrons. Competition rests on operating and processing costs. The Intense Neutron Generator proposal now cancelled would have been full scaloe for such a use, but much further advance in accelerator engineering is required and anticipated. Perhaps most promising is the application of the ion drag principle in which rings of fast electrons are accelerated along their axis dragging ions with them by electrostatic attraction. Due to the much larger mass of the ions they can acquire much higher energy than the electrons and the process could be efficient. Such accelerators have not yet been made but experimental and theoretical studies are promising."
"The use of an ultra-high resolution Ge(Li) photon spectrometer in low and high energy X-ray and gamma-ray measurements has been evaluated. Studies were made of the resolution, low energy cutoff, the full energy and K X-ray escape efficiencies, tha effective detector dead layer and the detector linearity. The detector was used simultaneously with a high resolution Si(Li) detector to measure fast coincidences between Ka1 , Ka2 and L X-rays, as well as coincidences between K, L conversion electrons and L X-rays. A detailed discussion is presented of the electronic problems associated with making these kind of measurements. Measurements were also made of X-ray beams produced by clinical X-ray machines at 40, 78 and 220 kV."
"The energy linearity for Si(Li) and Ge(Li) has been measured and compared with theory. Good agreement was obtained for x-ray attenuation factors μmd < 100 . The region of the germanium absorption edge was investigated and found to exhibit larger nonlinearities than predicted by the theory. The discrepancy is believed to be due to inefficient charge collection near the detector window leading to excessive fluctuations in the trapped charge. Calculations of the line broadening due to trapping have been shown to agree qualitatively with experimental values for the silicon detector. These calculations do not take into account any position dependent variation of the trapping factor, and must therefore be considered as the best attainable values. The disagreement between theory and experiment for the line broadening in Ge(Li) is particularly evident. The ϵ seems to be independent of energy in Si to less than 0.2% and in Ge to within at least 2% . Finally, the Fano factor in Si was found to be 0.154 +0.1 -0.2."
"The effects of heat treatments on resistivity, photoconductive decay and Lithium drift properties of p-type germanium single crystals have been investigated. We found that, in contrast to literature thermally produced acceptors cannot be reconverted if vacuum is used instead of a gas during \"anneal\" treatments. Vacuum heat treatments also lead to a stronger decrease of the photoconductive decay time than a gas atmosphere does. Close to theoretical Lithium drift rates considerably decrease in heat treatments, poor drift rates can be improved. The effects of quenching differs distinctly from those of slow cooling. The surface exposed to vacuum can be assumed to be a more abundant source of single vacancies due to a lower density of sorption engagements. Single vacancies diffuse then rapidly into the bulk and become less mobile in interactions, possibly with (interstitial) copper, thus providing stable p-sites."
"Calculations have shown that, for comparable trapping lifetimes, the effect of charge trapping in a coaxial detector is significantly less for the carriers which move radially outward from the core than for those which move inward, as a consequence of the non-uniform electric field. This has been verified by resolution measurements on two thin coaxial detectors made from the same hole-trapping crystal; one was made conventionally, by drifting lithium in from the outer surface, the other in an \"inside out\" configuration by drifting lithium outward from the surface of a central hole."
"The feasibility and usefulness of a coaxial Ge(Li) spectrometer as a well-type detector for sum spectra of coincident gamma rays is demonstrated. The value of the welltype geometry has previously been established in nuclear gamma spectroscopy with the use of (NaI(Tl) detectors. In this work a 16 cm3 hollow cylindrical germaniun detector has been made and mounted in such a way that access to the center of the detector is achieved from outside the cryostat. The detector is a fully depleted structure in which a hole of 1 cm diameter was ultrasonically cut, and a non-injecting contact applied to the inside surface. The measured resolution of the detector for a 1173 keV gamma ray sum peak from 144Pm was 2.6 keV f.w.h.m, which was mainly limited by statistics and preamplifier noise. The detection of sum lines arising from 2 or more coincident gamma rays is demonstrated by using the radioactive source of 144pm. With the source inside the well, for which the counting solid angle is nearly 4π, the sum peak of three lines at 1791 keV (696 + 618 + 477) was observed with an energy resolution of 3.5 keV f.w.h.m, and a peak to background ratio greater than 15:1. For the source outside the detector at a distance of 10 cm, this sum line was not observed above background for comparable counting statistics. Comparison is also made to results obtained from a 3\" well-type NaI(Tl) crystal."
"The performance characteristics of silicon surface barrier detectors have been investigated for detecting H+, He+, N+, Ne+ and Ar+ in the energy interval 6-100 keV. For a cryogenically cooled, 50 mm2, 1325 μ depletion depth detector the resolution for protons was 1.65 keV (FWHM). The resolution decreased as the particle mass increased being 6.5 keV for 40 keV Ar+. All particles exhibit pulse height linearity throughout the energy range."
"An experimental examination of the effect of several filters and two discriminator techniques on the time measurement of the signals from coaxial Ge(Li) detectors is presented in this paper. The signal to the filters and discriminators was obtained from the output of the charge-sensitive preamplifier in order not to degrade the energy resolution of the system. The discriminators used were a level discriminator for leading-edge discrimination and a fast zero-crossing discriminator. The filters examined for leading-edge discrimination were four RC time-invariant and four RC time-variant filters, and the filters for zero-crossing discrimination were three time-invariant RC filters. A comparison of time-invariant and time-variant filters reveals two advantages of the time-variant filter. These advantages are smaller timing errors and lower discrimination levels. The lower discrimination levels allow the reduction of energy dependent timing errors. Likewise, zero-crossing discrimination provides several improvements over leading-edge discrimination. By a compensation method, timing errors due to charge collection variations are reduced; and, due to the invariancy of the zero-crossing point as a function of amplitude, energy-dependent timing errors are also reduced."
"The performance of photomultipliers having first dynodes of cesium-activated GaP with gains of from 30 to 50 is discussed. The resolution capabilities are high enough so that the pulse height distribution obtained from low intensity scintillations breaks up into separate peaks for one electron, two electrons, etc. This high resolution makes it possible to separate unwanted single electron dark pulses from the scintillation signal pulses very effectively. The full width at half maximum (FWHM) of a single electron pulse height distribution is typically 40% to 50%. Methods of measuring the resolution of these tubes are discussed together with some of the results obtained. These high gain dynodes appear to have good life characteristics. Their life and fatigue properties are as good or better than those of CuBe dynodes."
"Non-intercepting monitors for measuring the total current or charge passing down the electron drift tubes have been constructed which are suitable for electron pulses from about 50 nanoseconds to 3.5 microseconds in width. Measurements are derived from output signals which are tuned to frequencies in the range 250 kcs to 45 kcs. Alternatively, for viewing pulse envelopes, ferrite coil outputs are integrated by a 25 ohm termination. The monitors are calibrated using an air cooled Faraday cup which is described."
"A beam loss detection system employing self-powered gamma detectors to monitor the radiation produced by stray beam has been installed on the 35 MeV linac. The system enables the operator to optimize machine and beam transport parameters to a precision not possible using conventional monitors alone."
"A method for observing non-recurrent events having short rise-time has been developed. Signals are sent to a transmission line where 50 sampling gates are tapped. A control pulse triggered by the incoming signal opens simultaneously all the linear gates. Successive tapping points are placed at 200 ps \"distance\" and the opening time of the gates is a little less. The full event is observed for a period of 10 ns and reproduced with 50 points. At present only 18 points are tapped."
"By attaching a medium-sized computer (IBM 1800) on-line to a wire spark chamber system and using simple algorithms, it is possible to analyze all the events and thus have much improved capability of monitoring the experiment. This paper describes the information so obtained and how it can be used."
"A system is described for using a medium scale computer in real time data acquisition, analysis, and control of high-energy physics experiments utilizing wire spark chambers."
"A system has developed to make density measurements on particle tracks in nuclear emulsions. The output signal of a videcon viewing the track through a microscope is digitized to detect developed grains in the emulsion. This digitized information is transferred in real time to a computer which selects grains falling in the track and sums their volumes and computes parameters related to their spatial distribution. Analysis of tracks at arbitrary angles is accomplished by rotating the track image in the focal plane with a Pechan prism and by driving the focal plane through the emulsion while taking data."
"A system using an SEL 810A computer programmed as a flexible multi-parameter analyzer is described. Features include a time-shared ADC channel with software gain correction for each input, unrestricted selection of spectra on any 2 of 4 input parameters, and live display of coincidence spectra with chance coincidences subtracted."
"An on-line data acquisition computer system is described which runs background computational programs while it is acquiring data independently of and asynchronously with the program. A combination of hardware and software prevents loss of data and destruction of the system through errors in Fortran background programs."
"The Data Acquisition and Analysis Complex is based on an SDS Sigma-7 computer with special purpose hardware. This complex will be time-shared by users at four independent accelerators. Each user may perform computations or data analysis while simultaneously collecting data and displaying results. A special feature of this complex is that the displays, programs and data are maintained on disc memories thus freeing the central processor and core memory for independent time-sharing tasks."
"Advanced features of the Scientific Data Systems Sigma-7 computer are being used at the Michigan State University Cyclotron Laboratory to produce a system which meets all of the needs of the laboratory. The computer is capable of large off-line tasks such as distorted wave Born approximation calculations and large on-line jobs such as 16K channel pulse height analysis and particle identification. Several off-line jobs can be time-shared with safe real-time operation using a supervisor program called JANUS."
"A multiprogrammed operating system for nuclear physics data acquisition has been developed as part of a Yale/IBM Joint Study. The system supports multiple users in a fully protected environment. Features of the system include dynamic storage allocation, a fully reentrant supervisor, language and device independence, dynamic priorities, virtual device utilities, and extensive inter-task communication facilities. An application example is presented."
"Derandomizing buffer stores for parallel digital data, and their applicability when the arrival distribution is Poisson, are discussed. It is shown that resolving time rather than size may typically be the major cause of data loss. A logical design for buffer organization is presented which lends itself to high speed operation. The organization is simple, requires only high speed bistable elements and logical gates, and may be used to design derandomizing buffers out of a variety of electronic devices. The highest speed of operation can be closely predicted as the propagation delay of the bistable device plus two times the propagation delay of the gates used. A number of buffers have been constructed using commercially available integrated circuits. One version has been operated at word rates of 114 mHz. Series-parallel organizations are discussed for use in large buffers operated at the highest speeds."
"The Data Collection Interface used by the BNL Data Acquisition and Analysis Complex provides a convenient generalized means of interconnecting a series of unrelated devices into as many as eight logically independent arrays. For each array data are read from the devices, packed together to form convenient descriptor addresses and then transmitted to the computer to be stored in an independent spectrum of arbitrary size and number of dimensions."
"An integrated hardware-software system for monitoring and controlling experimental equipment in nuclear structure experiments at the Yale University Wright Nuclear Structure Laboratory is described. In this system, the control and monitoring of symbolically addressed devices is multiprogrammed with other tasks. Where possible, the details of a control operation are handled by an external control unit rather than by the computer itself."
"The response of a rhodium all-solid, self-powered incore monitor was measured in a critical assembly mock-up of a typical PWR. The detector signal strength and the power density of adjacent fuel rods were correlated. The detector background, typically 2 to 5%, was highly dependent on the detector environment as well as the incident gamma flux."
"Two neutron detectors (fission counters) from each of three manufacturers were tested at several temperatures between ambient and 650° C.. Parameters examined as a function of temperature were: leakage current, capacitance, noise vs. voltage, and pulse height distribution."
"Ultrasonic thermometry, based on the temperature dependence of sound velocity in solids, has been demonstrated under ideal laboratory conditions beyond 6000R. Integrated fluxes (nvt) of 2.6 × 1019 fast and 8.7 × 1019 thermal do not perturb the velocity/temperature relationship. Ta protective sheaths prevented carbon contamination for 1 hr at 5100R, in a program simulating temperature measurements in the graphite/hydrogen atmosphere of a nuclear rocket engine. Tests have also been performed in liquid sodium at 1200R, and separately, inside a 1.6 mm dia Ta tube heated to 5500R, simulating temperatures inside UO2-fueled pins of fast breeder reactors."
"The leadwires of Inconel-sheathed, Chromel-Alumel thermocouples were irradiated at levels up to 1.5 × 108 rad/hr gamma and 4 × 1013 neutrons/cm2-s, and temperatures up to 700° F. The wires were 0.062 inch in diameter, and the junctions were maintained at 32° F. Although the radiation produced no effect detectable within a 0.2 ° F resolution, errors of 3 ° F maximum were induced by temperature gradients along the leadwires."
"The eddy-current flowmeter seems well adapted to measurements in high-temperature liquid-metal systems, where deterioration of the properties of permanent magnets and other ferromagnetic parts or bearing problems may seriously degrade the performance of other types. Tests on an eddy-current flowmeter confirm the high signal levels and the optimum excitation frequency predicted by an analysis of the device."
"1. The third-generation digital-process computers using solid-state integrated circuits have demonstrated better than 99 percent system availability and have proven reliable during operation. 2. On-line plant computers in nuclear-power plants are technically and economically justifiable by the ever-increasing requirements of surveillance and assimilation of such a quantity of plant parameters that conventional instrumentation is inadequate and cumbersome. 3. In-core instrument signals are best processed by an on-line real-time computer to yield detailed core information which can be used to maximize core power. 4. The computer is ideally suited for rapid and early detection of abnormal plant conditions, faulty sensors, and malfunctioning equipment. By proper programming, the computer can either alert the operator or initiate corrective action in sufficient time to prevent or minimize equipment failure and plant outages. 5. By performing essentially continuous calibration and checks of instrumentation, the operating limit uncertainties can be reduced with a consequential increase in the plant capacity. This is a particularly important advantage for nuclear plants which must adhere to technical specifications that impose power and other limits which are verified by instrumentation. 6. The trend toward very large and high power nuclear reactors results in core dynamics not previously considered a problem. Axial, azimuthal, and possibly radial xenon oscillations as well as xenon redistribution after power changes must be taken into consideration. With reactors operating close to thermal hydraulic limits, these transient conditions must be coped with relatively quickly."
"For complex systems and for systems where only a limited number of tests can be conducted, computers are needed to simulate the system for performing design and malfunction studies. These tests are conducted to, first, verify the validity of the simulation and, second, to upgrade the analytical program when test data become available. In the NERVA system, one of the methods for evaluating the analytical description and computer simulation is through the application of transfer functions. This paper will describe the computer data-processing methods that have been developed to permit total data analysis completion within a 72-hr period. To achieve this goal, it was necessary to establish efficient and flexible programming methods and to ensure that the data are valid when the tests are conducted. Because interpretation is essential, a well planned systematic approach to verification and simulation was introduced early in the program to study and interpret anomalies that could occur in the data."
"The FFT computing algorithm, when implemented on a modern digital process computer, provides nearly realtime power spectrum analysis of noise signals. Programmable selection of frequency range, filter center frequencies, and bandwidths makes its use attractive for increasing the safety and availability of complex and expensive reactor systems through on-line monitoring of fluctuations in neutron or gamma flux, system pressure, or mechanical vibration."
"Real time simulation for a multi-node, multi-delay group neutron kinetics model of power reactors has been achieved by application of the discrete interval Z-Transform method of Fowler together with a small correction on the stable period. These transforms are applied sequentially to the reactor kinetic equations to yield a set of linear algebraic difference equations which are accurate to one percent. Spatial variation is achieved by diffusion theory coupling terms between nodes. Several plots of analytic vs. simulated neutron density for single node cases are presented using a 10 Hertz solution rate."
"A process control computer was combined with the analog control system of the HFIR to perform the function of limiting the shim-rod reactivity additions as well as direct shim-rod symmetry control. Automatic shim control is supervised by a computer program which uses the measured reactor power level to continuously compute the core reactivity requirements during the 23-day fuel cycle. The high power density (4 Mw/liter) in the HFIR requires that flux tilting be controlled to minimize the possibility of hot-spot formation. This is accomplished by limiting the difference in shim-rod positions for reactor operation above 10 Mw. The rod symmetry is controlled by a computer program that actuates rod control relays in the analog system in response to the asymmetry determined from shim-rod position sensors. The rod control algorithm was tested on-line at 10 Mw, and routine operation of the on-line programs is planned after the overall reliability of the system has been measured."
"A control system utilizing digital and linear integrated circuits is described which was developed for low-power testing of Pewee 1, a reactor of the Rover program. The control system, while rather simple in concept, requires over 900 integrated circuits for its implementation. The control-rod actuators use geared-down electric stepping motors which permit precise positioning of the control rods within 0.01 deg. The system is versatile and easy to operate, which minimizes the time and effort required to execute experiments, as was proven during low-power testing of Pewee 1 during May and June, 1968."
"The Fast Flux Test Facility (FFTF) is the major irradiation test facility planned for the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor (LMFBR) Program. This paper discusses the facility instrumentation requirements, placing particular emphasis on out-of-core instrumentation. In-core instrumentation requirements are described in more general terms due to their greater dependence on reactor concept decisions. Out-of-reactor instrumentation requirements included in these discussions are: sodium and inert gas purity, sodium heat transport system measurements, fuel handling and examination, radiation monitoring, containment actuation and process control problem areas. Considerations leading to provisions for a multiple digital computer-based data handling and display system are described."
"Safety circuit designs for Critical Assemblies are somewhat different in concept from those applied to power reactors due to differences in operation and to different importance factors attached to various possible failure modes. The development of such circuit designs is described to illustrate past and current practices which have been found practical, efficient, and reliable. A number of problem areas and their solutions are given in order that similar problems might be avoided in future design. Directions for future development effort are indicated."
"A study was made of the feasibility of measuring power output of a thermal reactor with a gamma sensitive detector. Shielding was used to selectively attenuate gammas from fission products as compared to(n,r) reactions and prompt fission gammas. Measurements indicate agreement between detector response and reactor power output, determined independently, over more than three decades. There is evidence that effects of local neutron flux perturbations, seen by neutron chambers, are ignored by the gamma detector."
"Reactor coolant which boils in a fast reactor or high-flux research reactor, endangering reactor safety, can be detected acoustically. As a contribution to design of acoustic boiling detectors, the tank wall of a reactor is shown theoretically to affect standing waves in that tank. Experimental resonance frequencies of a 3-ft-diameter tank demonstrate that for low-pressure reactor tanks, the pressure at standing-wave frequencies is nearly zero at the tank wall, in contrast to the results for a perfectly rigid wall."
"The NERVA program presents many difficult instrumentation design problems. Gamma fluxes reach 109 rads(C)/hr and neutron fluences approach 1018 n/cm2 (E>l.0 Mev), while temperatures range from 40 to 4500°R. A summary of these problems and their solutions is discussed."
"A second-order system model is presented that approximates the transfer function of a pneumatic instrumentation line and provides a technique for simplifying the analysis of nuclear reactor control systems. The verification of this model is presented together with a discussion of its application."
"A simple automatic control system capable of compensating for detector gain changes over a dynamic range of 10 has been developed for laboratory and aerospace radiation detection systems. The basic concept involves a feedback system that adjusts the system gain to keep the peak of a stable calibration source at a predetermined level. Two variations are described, one providing continuous calibration and the other calibrating on command. The effects of calibration source characteristics and critical circuit parameters on the total system accuracy are discussed. Typical results for a proportional counter X-ray spectrometer indicate that the system gain can be maintained to within 4 percent of its initial value for a detector gain degradation of a factor of 3."
"The Vela 5 satellite energetic particle experiment will employ an E-dE/dX particle identifier in which the 2-pulse multiplication is performed by a gated, constant current circuit. The multiplication time is proportional to pulse height and varies betwieen 1.5 and 15 microseconds. The multiplier output is a reasonably accurate representation of the product of the input pulses, and is nearly independent of temperature."
"Described is a diode-pump type circuit without diodes in the signal path, resulting in a circuit that can be accurately analyzed. The analysis is given, as are plots of various ranges and accuracies. The experimental circuit is logarithmic ±1 per cent over a three decade count rate range throughout the temperature range of -40°C to + 75°C. Power consumption is approximately 25 milliwatts. Variations of the circuit are discussed for adaptation to various system constraints."
"A second generation gamma-ray telescope has been developed for further experiments in balloon-borne astronomy. This instrument is composed of 32 wire-grid spark chamber modules, each 50 × 50 cm2, utilizing two-coordinate ferrite core readout. The detector is flown on a 27 million cubic foot research balloon in a search for discrete gamma-ray sources and supernovae explosions."
"This paper describes the fabrication method and test results for Co60 and Am2 4 1 calibration sources to be used in an onboard calibration system for a γ-ray spectrometer and associated x-ray detector to be flown on an earth orbiting satellite. The system consists of radioactive sources loaded into scintillator buttons which-register the charged decay particles (betas and alphas) emitted by the radionuclides in coincidence with γ-rays. The latter are detected by γ-ray and x-ray spectrometers as calibration lines. The scintillator button is viewed by a separate photomultiplier tube so the light pulses resulting from the charged decay particles can be used to gate off the calibration γ-ray lines from the spectrometers during the normal mode of operation. The calibration is achieved by accepting only those pulses which are in coincidence with the pulses from the scintillator button, thus recording the calibration lines from the radioactive source. Some suggestions for future developments are also briefly discussed."
"This paper describes the design techniques and performance of a prototype electronics subsystem for a γ-ray spectrometer intended for spaceflight applications. The spectrometer uses a NaI(Tl) crystal for γ rays between 100 KeV and 8 MeV and a proportional counter for X rays between 1 KeV and 10 KeV. The 512-channel analog-to-digital converter is based on a design for Ge(Li) detectors and interfaces with a logic system providing serial readout of completely formatted spectral data. The instrument contains high-voltage power supplies for detector biasing and operates from 1.2 W of + 28 ±5 Vdc. Measurements show an electronic gain stability of ±0.09% for temperatures from -50°C to + 75°C and a differential linearity no worse than ±0.2% for the top 99% of the channels. Spectra resulting from 22Na and 55Fe are presented."
"The Small Scientific Satellite (S3) program provides a scientific \"bench\" which can be used by experimenters for a wide variety of investigations in the magnetosphere and near interplanetary space, employing the Scout launch vehicle. In the conduct of these scientific missions, the S3 program affords the experimenter control over parameters affecting the investigation, e. g. orbit, attitude control, and orientation. In addition, complete in-flight control of the data format is available through the use of an on-board set of stored program instructions which govern the collection of data and which are reprogrammable via ground command. Many of the spacecraft subsystems are modular and are used according to the experimenter's needs. This talk will describe the approach to the S3 program, the characteristics of the various subsystems, research capabilities of the program, and the first payload as a space nuclear instrumentation system."
"The Vela-4 satellite energetic-particle experiment consists of (a) a pair of diffused-junction semiconductor detectors for electrons in the energy range 30-600 keV, and (b) a garded, four-element, solar particle telescope for detecting protons from 0.5-100 MeV and alpha particles from 3.6-380 MeV, in 13 dfferentially-counted channels. Separation of protons from alpha particles is accomplished by an in-flight particle identifier. Two additional simplified telescopes are used to extend the angular coverage of the primary telescope, and a wide angle, high sensitivity scintillation detector is employed to monitor low intensity solar particle events. The design and operation of these instruments will be described."
"The design and calibration results of a satellite based solar-cosmic ray particle identifier system utilizing a field effect transistor analog multiplier for the IMP F and G spacecraft are described. A discussion is made of the effectiveness of particle separation by such a particle identifier used in on-board data processing."
"A primary electron detector has been designed to measure the electron component in the primary cosmic radiation. The measurement will reveal the absolute flux and energy spectrum of electrons in the energy range of 0.5 to 10 gev. The experiment will also measure gamma rays above 500 Mev and protons between 20 and 100 gev. The detector system consists of five individual radiation counters that are further grouped into the following subsystems; a lead glass total absorption spectrometer crystal, a cesium iodideglass scintillator phoswich, and a cesium iodide-plastic scintillator phoswich. All detectors are viewed by RCA 7151-N multiplier phototubes. The outputs of the photomultipliers are fed directly into the electronics where they are properly separated, amplified, and where the necessary coincidence/anticoincidence logic requirements are met. Of special interest in the electronics systems are the logarithmic amplifiers and pulse splitting circuits used on the phoswich signals. A three-decade logarithmic amplifier was also used for the lead glass subsystem. Several configurations were studied before a final decision was made to use a straight-line approximation system. The pulse-splitting circuits were designed to separate the fast and slow component of an optically mixed signal. A splitting ratio of about 8:1 was maintained for the cesium iodide-plastic subsystem. Three nine-bit spacecraft telemetry words were used to read out all pulse height and operational information. The experiment was launched on an Orbiting Geophysical Observatory (OGO-E) in early 1968."
"A compact channel-multiplier instrument has been designed and developed for spectral analysis of low-energy (0.5-500 keV) electrons and protons at synchronous altitude on the ATS-E satellite. The instrument package, which weighs 1.3 kg, contains 11 sensors and features a completely automatic in-flight calibration system for the interrogation of sensor and electronic performance. A detailed discussion of experimental objectives and design and calibration data for the instrument is presented. The results of studies of the long-term behavior of channel-multipliers is emphasized."
"A space flyable multichannel analyzer with 4096 × 16 bit memory has been developed. This paper is concerned primarily with the instrument's operational characteristics and unique thick-film construction. Foremost in the analyzer's specifications are a 200 milliwatt standby power consumption, typical differential linearity of ±0.2% over 98% of full scale, and physical dimensions of 3.25\"H × 8.0\"W × 6.75\"D."
"The principal problems associated with detecting low energy photons and charged particles are summarized, and the potential advantages to be gained by using channel electron multipliers to detect such radiation are discussed. Operating characteristics of the recently developed Spiraltron electron multiplier are also described. Spiraltrons incorporate all the operating characteristics of curved channel electron multipliers, but possess a straight geometric configuration that allows them to be stacked into large matrices. Such matrices have a peaked gain distribution (FWHM ≈ 90 percent), high mean gain (≈ 107), and low dark noise (3 counts/second/cm2) making them ideal for detecting low energy radiation from spacially dispersed sources."
"A system for automatically measuring and displaying the thresholds of many channels of nanosecond-speed discriminators is described. It is used in high-energy physics experiments in which the results depend critically upon the stability of the discriminator thresholds. Measurements are made in the dead time between accelerator beam spills. The system includes a programable pulse generator, a 20-channel pulse distribution transformer, and a multichannel coincidence array which is sequentially addressed. Since the distribution transformer is constructed as a throughline, matched-impedance element, it remains permanently connected in the signal lines from the phototubes, and no cables whatever need be disturbed to allow threshold measurement."
"A series of digital modules have been constructed which convert the equispaced output of a pulse generator into a pseudorandom sequence of predictable mean countrate suitable for the calibration of nuclear instruments sensitive to the time-distribution of the input pulses."
"This paper deals with the design of feedback peak stretchers, its main aim being that of ensuring both linearity and absolute accuracy as well as a fairly low degree of sensitivity to the input shape. A preliminary discussion on the limitations of the blocks which constitute the feedback loop of the stretcher is followed by suggestions for their realization. The conclusion of a short theoretical analysis are summarized, for an easier choice of the proper solution according to the various applications. Finally, different schemes of stretchers are given, which are believed to satisfy most of practical needs, and the results of the experimental tests are shown."
"A bubble chamber has been operated as a counter with the propane filling being highly superheated so that it is sensitive to the low energy (average 6 kev) electrons emitted in tritrium beta decay. Experimental techniques are described using quartz chambers of 10 ml volume operated at 55°C. Three plateaus are observed in a plot of the chamber counting rate against the superheat pressure (superheat pressure equals vapor pressure at 55°C minus expansion pressure). These were due to alpha particles (30-40 psi) recoil protons (50-90 psi) and electrons (140-220 psi). The chamber background counting rate was stable and reproducible for long periods of time. The counting rate was shown to be proportional to the activity in a tritiated propane filling; the detection efficiency was 65% on a plateau from 200 to 220 psi superheat. Cosmic rays could be eliminated from the background counting rate using anticoincidence techniques. The background rate for a 10 ml quartz chamber shielded by 2\" of borated paraffin and 8\" of iron was 4.5 cpm. We conclude that bubble chambers of somewhat larger size are suitable for the measurement of very low specific activities of such isotopes as carbon-14 and tritium with a sensitivity comparable to the best available gas counting systems."
"An environmental radiation monitor is described which records gamma radiation levels with a logarithmic response over a dynamic range of four decades (.01 mR/hr to 100 mR/hr achievable without range switching). Constant temperature accuracy is greater than ±10% of indicated reading throughout 3.5 decades of the four decade range. A high degree of temperature stability is achieved (error due to temperature change is less than ±20% of reading over an ambient temperature range of -10°C to + 55°C). Solid-state electronic circuitry is utilized exclusively for increased reliability and long term stability."
"A high-resolution data recording system has been developed as part of the Los Alamos program of time-of-flight neutron cross-section measurements that use an underground explosion source. Analog signals from detectors near the targets are fed through logarithmic amplifiers, displayed one-dimensionally on fast-phosphor cathode-ray tubes, and are recorded on photographic film moving at high velocity at right angles to the CRT spot motion. The system is capable of tenth-microsecond resolution over a span of milliseconds, and three percent accuracy over a five-decade dynamic range."
"A miniature neutron detector has been designed to verify the correct operation of a pulsed 14-MeV neutron generator. The detector consists essentially of the following components: a plastic scintillator which converts neutron energy to light; a photomultiplier tube which collects light and converts it into an amplified electrical signal; a power supply adjustable between -750 and -1300 volts; and electronic signal-conditioning circuitry which produces an output while the neutron level exceeds a prescribed value. A light-emitting diode, mounted in the scintillator, provides a means of simulating a neutron burst and allows the detector to be independently tested for correct operation. The components are foam-potted in a case measuring 2.4 by 3.8 by 1.5 inches; the entire detector weighs less than 1 pound."
"The Survey Meter measures γ-ray dose rates from background up to 20 rad/hour. The γ-ray energy range is from 30 keV to 1.25 MeV. Amplifying detectors which avalanche between 500 and 2000 volts are acceptable. The paper describes the circuits, mechanical design and its performance."
"An avalanche detector radioisotope X-ray fluorescence analyzer has been developed that has rapidly, accurately, and confidently measured the calcuim and potassium content of U. S. Geological Survey silicate rock standards. The measurements were made at room temperature with percentage errors of ±5 percent. The interference due to X-rays from adjacent elements was minimal. The precision of measurement with the solid-state instrument was such that at least 90 to 95 percent of the readings were within 1σ of the mean value."
"The design of an inexpensive linear gating multiplexer with unambiguous pulse labelling is discussed. In the linear gates, a technique of switching gain elements inside the overall feedback loop results in good pulse height stability and strong rejection of unwanted pulses. The use the multiplexer in some typical situations is discussed, and some possible pitfalls arising from the configuration of associated apparatus are pointed out."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The design of a medical γ ray camera for use in the isotope energy range 150-400 keV is described. It is based on the use of image-intensifiers, yields 1000 picture element definition, and provides discrimination against Compton scatter and other spurious signals. The present camera will accept 30,000 photopeak events/sec, but this is not an ultimate limit. Thus the instrument is well suited to both static and dynamic studies."
"Chromatic aberration is a major obstacle in the attempt to achieve near atomic resolution in electron microscopes. In analogy to dispersion of colors in a glass lens, nonuniform velocities of the illuminating electrons will reduce the resolution of an electron microscope lens. Instability of the accelerating potential is an important cause of these nonuniformities. To achieve resolution on the order of 1 to 5 Å, accelerating voltage must be stable to approximately 3 parts per million. To achieve these resolutions, a highly stabilized 1 MeV linear electron accelerator was developed. One of its two 15 in. (38 cm) accelerating tubes will provide a velocity stabilized electron beam source for a high resolution electron microscope. Electron acceleration occurs through a constant potential divider. A Van de Graaff type charge carrying pellet string provides the accelerating voltage. The primary or coarse control system for the linear electron accelerator compares the high voltage terminal voltage as detected with an accurate voltage divider to a reference cell voltage. Error signals are amplified to control the voltage on a capacitive liner. Control is accomplished by a voltage control of the cylindrical capacitive liner surrounding the high voltage terminal. The low frequency fluctuations in accelerator voltage maintained by this primary loop are less than 0.1% to permit utilization of a fine control loop with a spectrometer beam analysis control to achieve fine voltage stability of 3 parts per million."
"To accelerate protons in an Alvarez type linear accelerator or electrons in velocity modulated tubes, the cavity must be excited in the dominant TM010 mode. For proper understanding of beam dynamics and for purposes of design, the r.f. fields must be computed accurately for any specified dimensions of the drift space. In this paper the exact numerical solution for the fields in a drift tube loaded linear accelerator cavity with a beam guiding hole is presented. The eigenvalues, field distribution, transit time factor and the shunt impedance are formulated everywhere by boundary value techniques in the same manner as proposed by Bolle and Gluckstern in the absence of the beam guiding hole. The numerical results are obtained with the aid of a digital computer and are established by an excellent agreement with an experiment based on perturbation techniques."
"In this paper a survey is presented of the theoretical and experimental data obtained in the last eight years about both the shape of the pulses supplied by semiconductor detectors and the techniques for obtaining from these pulses a fast timing information. Moreover the problem is considered of extracting from the shape of the pulse some information on the type or the impact angle of the detected radiation."
"In photomultipliers the focusing voltage which gives the most peaked distribution is also the one which results in the largest count rate. For low focusing voltage there is a significant loss in single-photon events. The results of this experiment are consistent with the idea that the pulse distribution depends upon variations in the effective secondary emission ratio."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents page of the proceedings record."
"The parameters of the 70-GeV proton synchrotron were published in the Proceedings of the International Conference on High Energy Accelerators in 1963 (see Vladimersky et al., \"70-GeV Proton Synchrotron,\" Proceedings of the International Conference on High Energy Accelerators, Dubna, M. Atomizdat, 1964). The accelerator status during the period before its startup was reported at the Frascati conference in 1965, as well as at the Washington and Cambridge conferences in 1967. The accelerator began to work in 14 October 1967. Since then particle dynamics has been investigated, the systems of the slow proton beam guiding onto the internal targets were put into operation, and secondary beams were formed. Brief information on the present accelerator status is given."
"The Atomic Energy Commission has assigned to the Universities Research Association the task of developing a 200-GeV particle-physics research laboratory. The development of this laboratory requires the construction of an accelerator, experiment areas, offices, utilities, roads and many other things; it also requires that they be combined so as to create an environment for imaginative research. A design staff under the leadership of R. R. Wilson has been attacking this whole problem for about one-and-a-half years. The problem is challenging because the initial scope for the laboratory is somewhat limited, and within this scope and our expectation of funding, we must create an effective laboratory so that the success of our initial experimentsmay encourage Congress to invest in further development. You can best judge the effectiveness of our design efforts by examining the papers presented at this conference on specific components of the accelerator. I would like to present to you something of the planning for the laboratory as a whole."
"A computer analysis of an electromagnetic mass analyzer system which will be mounted in the high voltage terminal of a planned 3MeV van de Graaff heavy ion accelerator at M.I.T. has been performed. Since one of the main fields of application of this new facility will be ion implantation, a stigmatic focusing analyzer with high transmission is required. It is shown that a magnetic sector field which is formed by plane inclined pole faces meets both these requirements. Second order ion optical calculations for this type of field are given and compared with two more conventional alternatives of stigmatic focusing analyzers namely the homogeneous field fringe field focusing magnet and the rotationally symmetric field with logarithmic field gradient n = 1/2. The complete ion injector system which will consist of a high temperature metal ion source, an extraction and focusing system and a stigmatic double focusing mass analyzer will have a total weight of about 400 pounds and be capable of unit mass resolution at least up to mass number 150."
"Operational characteristics of a Duoplasmatron ion source were examined for millianmpere positive ion beams of Helium and Argon. Ion beam current was measured as a function of extraction voltage for various source arc and source magnet currents. With the source parameters fixed, the data exhibits a critical voltage, above which the target current saturates and is independent of extraction voltage. This saturation current is linearly dependent on the source arc and source magnet currents. Below the critical voltage, the target current can be described by a V3/2 dependency on extraction voltage. These observations indicate that the total ion current extracted from the plasma is only dependent on the source parameters. Results are compared for strong field and weak field extractor electrodes which confirm that the total current extracted from the plasma is independent of the extraction field strength."
"A 200-kV test stand has been constructed for design evaluation of an ion source and accelerating column to operate at 750 kV. Requirements are a 6% to 12% duty factor for a 30-mA. pton pulse current with a normalized emittance (Area ßγ/π) of < 0.04 cm-mrad. The ion source is a Von Ardenne duoplasmatron with a large expansion cup. Beam extraction is accomplished by an exact Pierce geometry accelerating column. The test stand vacuum system uses a 1000 l/s ion pump capable of handling continuously the 2 atm-cc/min hydrogen throughput of the ion source. Pumping cells of the ion pwsp are expected to have a useful life in excess of 4000 h. The test stand can be completely operated by computer control. The test stand results indicate that the requirements at 750 kV can be realized."
"The HIPAC Ion Source is a novel device intended to produce very highly stripped heavy ions; the achievement of this objective would permit the acceleration of heavy ions in relatively modest cyclotrons, linacs, etc. The problem of stripping heavy ions by successive electron impacts is discussed in general terms. The HIPAC Ion Source is then described using for illustrative purposes a nominal set of characteristic parameters. A torus 20 cm in maior radius is estimated to yield 1013 ions/s of Kr20+ or 1011 ions/s of U60+. The current status of experimental work on the concept is briefly reviewed."
"Pulsed power technology has grown rapidly during the last decade. Particular credit is due to research efforts at United Kingdom Atomic Weapons Research Establishment (AWRE). The largest machine presently in operation is the Sandia Laboratories Hermes II which has produced a 170 kA beam of electrons at energies of 12 million volts for times of 100 ns. This paper reviews the design and performance of the Hermes II and includes data from Hermes I, a prototype."
"An 18-megavolt, 1 megajoule Marx generator has been constructed and tested to 11 MV as the primary energy store of the Hermes II flash x-ray machine. A geometrical arrangement for the capacitors that takes advantage of the stray capacities to provide a wide triggering range and fast Marx erection time was developed from model and circuit studies. The design parameters of the Marx were checked by constructing and testing a 4 MV, 100 kJ generator using components proposed for the 18 MV system. Spark gaps were developed specifically for the generator and have operated successfully for over 50,000 gap firings."
"A two-stage tandem accelerator system, powered by a Dynamitron high voltage generator, is currently undergoing factory tests. The parallel-coupled, cascaded-rectifier generator has been designed for a 5 mA current capability at maximum guaranteed voltage for future high current operation. A large diameter gas stripping canal is used in two-stage operation to optimize beam transmission. Titanium getter-ion pumps are mounted in the terminal at the ends of the stripper assembly to insure acceptable vacuum conditions in the fully shielded acceleration tubes. Guaranteed specifications of this model series are 150 μA of targeted proton current at 10 MeV. The injector has delivered up to 250 μA of H- and the generator has operated at 5.7 MV during initial testing. The complete system is now being assembled for beam test. Some novel features of this new tandem are described and operational performance characteristics measured during factory testing are reported."
"Vertical beam jitter is detrimental for some experiments. The cause is traced to non-uniform charge distribution on the belt. A device is described which suppresses the jitter."
"Accelerator vacuum systems, which are adequate for the acceleration of intense beams of light elements, may not be suitable for heavy ions which have large charge changing cross sections. Charge charging collisions with residual gases in the accelerator tubes produce a continuous distribution of ion energies as well as the desired discrete energy output of the accelerator. An MP tandem with a carbon foil terminal stripper was used to accelerate Iodine ions. The attenuation of the unique energy beam components due to unwanted charge changing collisions was measured by energy and magnetic analysis of the accelerator output. The effects of terminal pumping, vacuum deterioration due to added gas, and reduction of the accelerator tube conductance were studied with particular attention to high charge states. Under typical conditions with a 6 MV terminal and pressure ~ 4 × 10-6 Torr in the terminal region, the total beam attenuation was ~20%."
"An 800 l/s electrostatic ion pump and a 500 l/s magnetic triode ion pump have been tested to determine which would be most suitable for pumping the hydrogen gas emanating from a duoplasmatron ion source. The ion source and pump will be located in the terminal of a High Voltage Engineering Corporation (HVEC) type MP tandem accelerator. The two pumps were mounted on a pump test stand with a manometer, two needle valves, and two ion gauge controllers. The hydrogen flow to each pump was increased slowly until the pump was near the point of pressure instability. Flow rates and pressure were recorded for approximately 1000 hours. The performance of the magnetic triode ion pump was superior to that of the electrostatic pump. The magnetic triode ion pump has undergone another test pumping the hydrogen gas from a duoplasmatron. Pumping speed measurements, modes of failure, and other details of these continuing tests will be presented."
"This paper describes a gas handling system for model MP Van de Graaff accelerators, using components with high pumping capacities together with gas temperature controls and heat exchangers to limit the temperature changes that accompany rapid gas pumping."
"In modern high energy particle accelerators there are many component parts and devices which operate at high voltages in vacuum, e.g., injectors, inflectors, beam choppers and velocity separators. Since the surface voltage stress attainable across insulators is generally lower than across plane gaps, the physical size of the apparatus is governed by the high voltage performance of the support insulators in vacuum. In this paper the author discusses the various factors affecting the insulator performance, in the light of his experience with NIMROD, the 7 BeV proton synchrotron and the design of a D. C. injector for an intense neutron generator machine which was under study at Chalk River, Canada."
"The long range objective of the ion accelerator development at RDI is to achieve a proton beam current of 5 to 10 mA at 3 to 5 MeV energy. Present performance is limited to 3 mA of mixed hydrogen ions at 3 MeV and 2 mA at 4 MeV despite the fact that both ion source and high voltage generators are capable of 10 mA service. Symptoms of excess ion beam loading are; rapidly increasing vacuum, X-ray production, leakage current, and beam halo. These observations can all be explained through the mechanism of scattering of the beam by residual gas in the acceleration tube. This effect is regenerative because scattered particles release more gas from the tube electrodes. The problem has been substantially reduced by a titanium getter-ion pump at the high voltage terminal. In addition to the pump, a crossed-field mass analyzer has been operated in the terminal, Comparative data on machine performance with analyzed beams has shown that the loading effects are more severe with molecular ions. The data suggest that the goal of 5 to 10 mA of protons can be achieved through the proper use of vacuum pumping and mass analysis prior to acceleration."
"A pressurized l-MeV electron accelerator was developed after the principle of the symmetrical cascade generator with fully electronic ac supply and voltage regulating systems. A special feature of the new commercial model is the twin-tank design in which the high voltage generator and the accelerator are separated from each other in individual tanks. The two units are connected by a high-ohmic resistor which is enclosed in a pressurized connecting tube. The ripple voltage is negligible (1 × 10-7) and the overall voltage stability is between 1 × 10-6 and 1 × 10-5 in the voltage range from 100 kV up to 1 MV. The electron accelerator is designed as a production model for the supply of a commercial l-MeV electron microscope."
"The power supply which is used as the accelerating potential for megavolt Dynamitron accelerators is a parallel-fed, series-cascaded rectifier system. Low frequency RF voltage is capacitively coupled into the cascaded rectifier system by means of an SF-6 gas insulated electrode configuration. Maximum voltage attained with this configuration has been 5.7 MV. Maximum current attained has been 20 mA. Maximum beam power attained has been 40 kW. This paper covers the development of equations which express the operational input parameters such as, oscillator plate voltage, current, and power in terms of the required output high voltage and load current, and the internal circuit parameters such as, tank capacitance, tank inductance resistance, number of rectifier stages, and oscillating frequency. Calculated data from these equations agree closely with experimental data. This analysis allows the optimization of a power supply design in terms of critical parameters for a given maximum output voltage and load current."
"An air isolated 200 keV heavy ion Accelerator has been in operation for more than four years at our laboratory. We report on our experience with this machine and present a mass analysis for CO gas. The magnetic analyzing system has a stability of better than 0.01% without a feedback network. The 2 1/2 ton analyzing magnets are mounted on pneumatic feet allowing positioning of the two magnets in any desirable configuration. Described is the vacuum system which permits us to bombard targets essentially without carbon buildup. The machine is being modified to produce ions up to mass number 250u andan operating energy of 400 keV."
"The present planning and design goals for the LAMPF injector complex include a high-intensity H+ beam, an H- beam, and polarized H+ and H- beams. Since simultaneous acceleration of H+ and H- beams will be attempted by the LAMPF accelerator, a dual beam-transport system for blending these beams into a common channel will be necessary in the injector area. Provision also is made for injecting either H+ or H- polarized beams into the system. A high-quality beam of protons (π cm-mrad emittance and 26 mA) has been produced by a von Ardenne duoplasmatron and a Pierce extraction accelerating column. Problems of simultaneous bunching and matching of H+ and H- beams of different intensities have been studied. The entire injector complex is under computer control and should provide reasonably sophisticated pulse programming flexibility."
"In response to the growing interest in high energy D+ and He++ ions, studies were made to determine the feasibility of accelerating these ions in the PPA. The studies indicated that in order to accelerate D+ ions to 600 MeV, the R.F. would have to operate at the 12th harmonic; to produce 2.4 GeV D+ ions, the R.F. would operate at the 8th harmonic. An attempt was successfully made to accelerate D+ at the 12th harmonic and a beam of ~6×1011D+/sec. was obtained at 600 MeV. An effort is now being made to accelerate D+ on the 8th harmonic. In addition, an attempt is being made to obtain a useful beam of He++ ions."
"The CEA 130 MeV electron linac has a pulse length of 2.5 μsec. The 6.0 GeV synchrotron accepts only a 0.76 μsec pulse length to fill its circumference. To inject the entire 2.5 μsec pulse length results in unnecessary radiation damage to vacuum chambers and various portions of the transport system. It is desirable to inject only a 0.76 μsec pulse, and to select empirically that portion of the linac pulse that has the least energy spread. The unwanted portion of this pulse should be deposited on a suitably designed beam stopper. A magnet followed by a water-cooled collimator has been installed, which precisely chops the 130 MeV linac pulse. The system has been designated PAC for post acceleration chopper. The PAC system and our experience with it will be described."
"The Cornell Dynamitron is being used as a source of monoenergetic neutrons in the range 30-500 keV, with fluxes up to 109 n/sr/s. Problems of generating and handling the 2 Mev, 4 ma beam are discussed. Analyzing magnet slit feedback is essential for accurate control of neutron energy. Contrary to other published data for these machines, we observe up to 3% drift in the energy when it is controlled by the voltage feedback system. Discrepancies between this and previously published data are discussed."
"The overall performance of the Cornell 10 GeV machine is summarized and brief mention is made of maintenance problems and improvements made during this, the first year of operation."
"A 240 MeV electron storage ring has been in operation at the Physical Sciences Laboratory of the University of Wisconsin for one year. The storage ring injector is a 50 MeV FFAG electron synchrotron. The bunched beam from the synchrotron is injected into the storage ring in a single turn. Radio-frequency capture is accomplished by using the signal from the bunched beam as the master oscillator during capture. Using this method, high capture efficiency is achieved. A useful consequence of the method of radio-frequency capture is the damping of the coherent synchrotron oscillation instability. The beam may be accelerated, or decelerated, to any energy within the capability of the ring - 10 MeV to 240 MeV. The vacuum system operates at a pressure in the mid 10-10 range allowing lifetimes of many hours for low intensity beams. During the first year of operation several interesting effects have been observed. Among these were photo etching of metal from the vacuum chamber by synchrotron radiation and enhanced beam loss due to scattering from ions trapped in the electron beam. The beam also exhibits a transverse coherent instability that violates the Courant-Sessler criteria for stability."
"This report describes specific featwre of projects and subsystems developed at the Radiotechnical Institute includimg these of an 680 NOT synhroeycletren, 7-, 10-, and 704-GeV proton synobrotrens, and 20-and 100-MeV proton linacs. Main data on a 1000-GeV proton synchrotron project and results of investigationm carried out on its scale model are given."
"During 1968 two new internal targeting modes were successfully tried in the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). These modes will substantially increase the utilization of the ZGS by giving beam to several beam lines on the same machine pulse for the entire length of flattop. One of these modes, using two targets 180° apart, was tried in preparation for utilization of the second extracted proton beam area. Beam intensity could be arbitrarily divided on the two targets for the full 750 msec flattop. Additionally, secondary particles from one of these targets can provide a pion beam into the Meson Area. Measurements of emittance showed no significant change from previous single-target extraction. Another mode utilized beam sharing on two targets located about five feet apart in the magnetic field of the ZGS ring magnet. In this case, an extracted proton beam (EPB) was delivered into the EPB-I area; a neutron beam at 10 production angle and a pion beam were delivered into the Meson Area. It appears possible to combine these two modes and thus be able to provide a 750 msec spill into four different beam lines on each machine pulse."
"We have shown that in a one-particle model, and for a linear sum resonance it is possible to obtain a small growth of vertical beam dimensions relative to that of the horizontal dimensions by having sufficient vertical damping. Whether the one-particle model of this paper is an adequate approximation to the n-body problem of a beam, subject to a clearing electrode, has not been studied. However, the interesting results obtained here, strongly motivate further study of this point, especially as the calculation suggests the possibility of generally controlling resonant beam growth by means of damping electrodes."
"Bunch shape oscillations1 are present in the AGS both before and after the transition energy (≈8 BeV) is reached. At transition, they can be excited by timing, phase and radial misadjustments, and beyond by rapid large radial position changes used for targeting or by rapid large (> 20%) targeting losses. They can also be excited before transition by misadjusting the low level RF control system. In addition, excitation before transition can occur when 2fs = 720 Hz, the magnet ripple frequency, or when 2fs = 360 Hz, the ripple frequency on the RF cavity tuning servo systems. An analysis of the RF phase control system2 including second order effectsl indicates that it should damp these oscillations but at a rate~fs/ßγ except in the vicinity of transition. At 200 ms, E ≈ 6.5 BeV, γ ≈ 6.9, fs ≈ 200 Hz, and the damping rate is ≈ 0.46 s-1. Thus adequate inherent damping is present only early in the acceleration cycle. This, plus the fact that the sensitivity of the phase control electronics to bunch shape variations can at times produce antidamping, has led to the design and testing of various feedback damping systems to control these oscillations. An analysis of RF phase and amplitude feedback, using a peak detected signal, as applied to the RF control system, will be given. Operational results using both types of feedback will be described."
"The field coefficients in the median plane are introduced in a scalar potential from which the magnetic field, vector potential, and Lagrangian are obtained. The differential equations to solve the equilibrium orbits, tunes, and nonlinear effects are discussed in terms of these coefficients."
"The uncoupled equations of motion of charged particles in the longitudinal and transverse directions in a linear accelerator in the absence of space charge forces are reviewed. The effect of coupling on the dynamics is introduced and results are obtained for the apparent increase of the projected phase space areas. Questions of non-linearities and fringing field couplings are discussed. In the presence of space charge forces, oscillation frequencies are decreased, admittances are changed, and additional couplings and non-linearities are introduced. These cause further deterioration in beam quality. An effort has been made to identify those particular effects which play the major role in increasing phase space areas. Comparisons are made with detailed three dimensional orbit computations in an effort to sort out the various effects."
"The performance of two and three gap debunchers was investigated by computing how well a straight line between the ordinates +1 and -1 and of abscissa length Tr radians can be approximated by a two and three term harmonic series. What is desired is a series that will minimize the maximum deviations between the straight line and the series approximation to that line. The usual Fourier series, or least squares fit which is equivalent to it, does not satisfy this desideratum. The series coefficients were obtained by means of a computer program written for the CDC-6600. For a two term series, the minimized maximum difference is 0.017. A three term least squares fit gives a maximum difference of 0.0058; this is small enough for our purpose, so no calculations were done to minimize it. The calculations were repeated for a straight line of extension 4 radians along the abscissa. The results are minimized maximum differences of 0.057 and 0.014, for two and three term series respectively."
"This report describes the preliminary computer analysis of the phase stability problem of the I.N.G. linac. The tolerances on the tank amplitudes and phases were derived for several alternative control schemes."
"This report discusses three types of perturbations on particle trajectories in beam handling systems due to space charge forces: (1) Owing to radial space charge forces the beam will expand in diameter in drift spaces along the beam orbit. (2) Owing to longitudinal space charge forces energy dispersion will increase along the beam trajectory when the beam is bunched. (3) While transiting cross magnetic fields particle trajectories on the inner and outer edge of monoenergetic beam are not similar; as a result there appears to be additional energy dispersion in the beam."
"The internal beam of the Brookhaven AGS has been extracted by exciting the third-integral nonlinear resonance at a horizontal tune of vH = 8-2/3. The extraction efficiency is approximately 80% and the spill duration ~ 300 to 400 ms. The beam has been extracted over the energy range 20 to 29 GeV. Preliminary measurements of horizontal and vertical emittance give EH ≈ 0.036 π in.-mrad and EV ≈ 0.09 π in.-mrad. Intensity modulation of the spill is presently about 40%."
"For a fast cycling synchrotron injector (booster), a significant cost reduction, mainly related to rf requirements, may be obtained by reducing the booster cycling rate. For this reason slow cycling synchrotrons with multiturn extraction have been considered for the purpose of a booster injector. The disadvantage of time dependent beam emittance and beam intensity during the extraction process is well known. With two-turn extraction this problem can be avoided making it still possible to reduce the booster cycling rate by a factor of two. Specifically for the 200-400 GeV NAL accelerator booster synchrotron, two-turn extraction has been studied and results are reported here, mainly related to extraction losses, betatron oscillation tune tolerance and extracted beam effective phase space dilution or beam transfer losses."
"Measurements of slow extraction efficiency at the CERN PS suggest that the loss during extraction is about three times that given by existing theory. In an attempt to explain this discrepancy, the effect of momentum spread in the circulating beam has been considered. Computations of the effect of momentum spread in an integer resonance extraction system have already been presented in an earlier study of the design of the CERN Intersecting Storage Rings (ISR) extraction system. The theory is, in general, applicable to any integer extraction system but in this paper we restrict our discussion to its implications for the particular case of the CERN Proton Synchrotron (CPS) extraction system. It seems that in an extraction system operating at an integer resonance, displacement of the unperturbed closed orbit from the axis of perturbing quadrupoles due to momentum spread, closed orbit distortion or deliberate misalignment, results in a considerable displacement of the unstable and stable fixed points. The perturbed closed orbits corresponding to these points oscillate about the unperturbed orbit with an amplitude which is several times greater than the unperturbed displacement. In this paper we first discuss a simple analytic model to illustrate the nature of the effect and then present the results of a computation for a more realistic model of the CPS."
"The electron beam at the Cornell 2 GeV synchrotron has been extracted using independently controlled quadrupole and octupole magnets. The septum used has sufficient bend to avoid the synchrotron fringe field. The extracted beam has a divergence of less than 0.5 mrad., a size of 2 mm x 2 mm, a momentum spread less than 0.25% and an intensity greater than 109 electron/pulse (30 pulses/second. The beam is stable, easy to obtain and parasitic operation is possible."
"The design criteria for the slow beam are given, and the methods for achieving high extraction efficiency are discussed."
"Details are given of a system involving an energy-loss target, a plunged 1 cm septum magnet and correction of the Nimrod field by radially focusing elements where the beam emerges. These elements are energised partly from Nimrod fringe flux and partly from powered windings. The applied current has to be programmed with the magnet pulse to minimise disturbance of the accelerator field. Design work has so far been done with the program TRIM, solving sections of the configuration at various azimuths as two-dimensional problems. The lip and targetting program LIMP has been used to generate \"realistic\" assemblies of, typically, 100 particles, which are then tracked through the extraction system using the program NIMDYN. A tagging facility enables particle identity to be retained through to the final statistics on assemblies of 100 particles or less."
"In this report the solution of the equations of motion of relativistic particles in axisymmetric lenses is discussed, using boundary value solutions to represent the lens fields. Among electron microscopists it is well-known that in an ideal lens the axial field intensity diminishes radially. This condition cannot be met for a static field except in the superconducting case. However, time varying fields possess this characteristic and a cavity supporting the TE-01 mode is proposed as a microwave lens, useful where beams have an RF microstructure."
"In the initial stage of transient beam loading of an electron linear accelerator, the decrease in energy with time is approximately linear. It will be shown that this phenomenon can be used to provide a small constant charge per pulse at a given energy independent of accelerated beam current and peak beam energy, if the accelerator is used in conjunction with an energy analyzing system and defining slits. Some of the limitations of this technique are discussed. Applications are numerous and include current limitation in the electron beam therapy of malignant tumors with linear accelerators and the field of pulse radiolysis."
"The mechanism of collision damping for heavy particles ia investigated in the nonrelativistic case. By means of the FOKKER-PLANCK coefficients the mean rates of change of momentum and energy for two kinds of particles and energy and temperature relaxation times are calculated. The energy changes in the various directions have been evaluated. It is possible to give a condition for beam cooling in the transversal directions. As an example, we have given the results for a proton-electron system."
"A new fast beam extraction facility has been installed in the CERN proton synchrotron. The system provides, during the same machine cycle, up to three partial fast ejections to the same or different experimental areas at minimum intervals of 150 to 200 ms. The number of proton bunches at each ejection may be varied continuously, and furthermore the system may be programmed to perform different ejection schedules from machine cycle to machine cycle."
"One of the primary requirements of the Astron controlled thermonuclear reactor experiment is an intense beam of relativistic electrons. An accelerator to produce such a beam with currents of the order of several hundred amperes has been in operation at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, Livermore, for several years. The accelerator operates on the principle of magnetic induction as applied to a linear accelerator. The original accelerator has been redesigned and rebuilt in order to increase the output beam current, to increase the beam energy, and to improve the quality of the output beam. Given in Table I is a comparison between the original machine and the design parameters for the new machine."
"Tests in CSF laboratories have given evidence for the excellent quality of the bunching in the first section. Tests on the site starting in january 1968 were performed during all the year. Operations with both electron and positron beams give many results, namely maximum electron energy 640 MeV with zero current and 540 MeV with 40 mA peak current and an energy distribution with FWHM 3 to 4/1000. The maximum peak current obtained was 60 mA and no beam break-up does appear. Operations were performed at duty cycles of 1 % and 2 % with electron beam power of the order of 100 kW during many shifts of 30 hours ; energy stability was better than 1 % for 30 hours. Special devices helping to handle the beam inside and outside the linac at such a power level are described. First measurements of e+/e- conversion efficiency give an intensity ratio of positron beam relatively to electron beam, above 400 MeV positron energy, of the order of 10-3 and improvements are expected."
"With the new linear accelerator of Saclay (ALS) an electron-positron converter has been built . This paper gives some views of the theoric and technical studies and the results we obtained during the acceptance tests of the accelerator"
"The 95 MeV electron lineac of the Institute for Nuclear Research in Amsterdam (EVA), now fully operational, will be described. At high energies and low currents 80% of the current of the low-emlttance beam falls within a 0.3 % energy-band. Maximum peak currents of up to 150 mA are obtained within a 0.8% energy-band. This performance is attained using two SLAC sections (each 3 m long), and a Frascati-type injector. The inherent properties of both are matched by the excellent performance of the peripheral equipment which includes two modulators for powering the two SLAC-type klystrons, the cooling system and the microwave driver and interface instrumentation."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe recent developments at SLAC which have contributed to improvements in beam operation. The paper will be divided into two parts. The first will summarize overall beam performance and operational efficiency in delivering beams to various experiments. The second will be devoted to specific developments such as the achievement of higher energies, increasingly narrow energy spectra, higher beam breakup current thresholds, chopped beams and improvements in pulse-to-pulse operation. The discussion will include a description of various new pulsed devices such as pulsed quadrupoles, improvements in the positron source and new beam loading measurements obtained for very short pulses."
"High current results of a 140-MeV electron traveling wave L-band linear accelerator are discussed. The 150-kV gridded gun injector has demonstrated pulse currents in excess of 30 A and pulse widths as narrow as 2.3 nsec at 1000 Hz. The accelerator wave guide sections are of nonuniform impedance design 4.3 m each and are driven by 24 mW, 67.5 kW L-band klystrons. Uniform solenoidal focusing is employed over the accelerating sections and quadrupole focusing is employed in beam transport. Short pulse current exceeding 16 A has been observed at the target position within an area of less than 4 Cm2."
"Radiation pulses 50 ps in duration have been attained at the EG&G/AEC electron linear accelerator by isolation of individual microstructure groups of electrons which normally occur at the fundamental accelerating frequency. Pulse compression by means of velocity modulation techniques has been used to increase the intensity of these pulses from 0.02 nC to 1.5 nC per pulse, or 30 A for the 50-ps pulse length. The injector pulse is synchronized to the RF acceleration frequency with a precision of 30 ps, which results in pulse-to-pulse reproducibility to within a few percent, permitting recurring pulse measurements to be made with sampling oscilloscopes. These intense short bursts of radiation allow the study of radiation detectors, scintillators, and chemical systems in the subnanosecond time domain. Neutron time-of-flight measurements with a total resolution of 400-500 ps have also been demonstrated. The calculated charge enhancement resulting from velocity-modulation bunching is compared to measured performance, and the system is described in detail."
"Standing wave accelerator tanks which utilize non-excited resonant elements for field stabilization have become standard in proton linac designs during the last few years. A general description of resonant coupling, with special emphasis on the energy propagation characteristics of resonantly coupled systems is given. Extension of resonant coupling to the coupling of short 0 or π mode like sections is briefly discussed. The transient response of two resonantly coupled linac tanks, a post coupled drift tube linac and a side coupled linac tank are compared to conventional 0 or π mode tank responses. Finally, a brief description of applications of resonantly coupled linac tanks to electron and proton linacs under construction in the U.S. is given."
"The method of Walkinshaw, Sabel and Outram has been extended to cavities consisting of drift tube loaded cells with varying lengths in order to determine the field flatness and sensitivity to errors for the various modes of a realistic linac. A computational program has been written which gives the resonant frequency and field pattern for a multi-cell cavity with arbitrary drift tube lengths and gap lengths. The object of the study is to obtain the following information: 1) Mode structure and resonant frequencies of a cavity consisting of several identical cells in order to obtain the dispersion curve. 2) Sensitivity of the field flatness to dimensional errors for the zero and 7/2 modes. 3) Mode structure and field flatness for a cavity consisting of several cells with differing geometrical parameters. Results of these computations are presented and discussed."
"Beam emittance and its time variation in the 50-MeV linac of the Argonne ZGS were investigated under different conditions. A slit and strip-electrode combination was used together with a multiplexed A-D converter and a high speed buffering system linked to a control computer. Description and analysis of some of the results obtained is presented in this paper."
"The design criteria for the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility (LAMPF) specifies an initial capability for 6% duty factor (DF), 16.7-mA peak beam current (1-mA average) with provisions for eventual operation at a 12% DF, 8.3-mA peak beam current (also 1-mA average). The first four accelerator cavities in LAMPF will be of the Alvarez type operating at 201.25 MHz and each having a Q of approximately 50,000. This combination of frequency and Q, together with the overdrive provisions built into the rf systems dictate a cavity fill time of 200 μsec. If this 200 psec is added to the ultimate design of 12% DF beam, (1000 psec pulse, 120 Hz), it is found that a 14.4% DF rf system (1200 psec pulse, 120 Hz) is necessary to satisfy the ultimatd design limits of IAMPF. The last three of the four Alvarez cavities require approximately 3-MW peak rf power each at the afore-mentioned 14.4% ultimate DF. This power must be controlled over a dynamic range of approximately 30% during the usable part of the pulse while maintaining a cavity field amplitude tolerance of ± 1.5%. The system must also be capable of overdriving the Alvarez cavity approximately 30% during turn-on to enhance the cavity field pulse rise time. This then dictates an overall control range of about 50%, i. e., (2-4 Mw) for the rf modulator system. The 201.25-MHz rf systems in LAMPF will use a series hard-tube modulator for control of rf power."
"A new high power RF system has been installed at the Brookhaven 50-MeV linac to accelerate the higher beam intensities now available from an improved preinjector. Use has been made of the previous efforts of many people to reach a final flexible system design. Initial system operation to date has increased by a factor of two the linac output current intensity while obtaining an energy spread comparable to the one observed for lower currents."
"In order to make detailed measurements of the rf amplifier-accelerator systems for the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility (LAMPF) proton accelerator, it was necessary to develop better directional couplers and slotted lines. The degree of precision required in the construction and adjustment of these devices when measurements of a few percent accuracy are desired in complicated, mismatched, high-power systems is surprising. The theoretical considerations and the mechanical refinements necessary to achieve good performance are outlined in this paper."
"Due to the very low heavy-ion velocity at injection, the frequency must also be kept low enough and it turns out that Alvarez and twin-line structures become inefficient. Experimental works were carried out at Lyon on a new type of structures well suited for low velocity range, namely the interdigital H-type structure. The dimensions of this type of structure as well as their electrical characteristics proveto be very attractive at low frequency; furthermore, due to the particular field pattern in these resonators, radial focusing of the beam appears to be possible with magnetic quadrupoles at energy as low as 50-60 keV/nucleon and frequency in the range of 20-30 MHz. Such a field pattern also gives good acceptances for the whole cavity. This paper presents our last results, discusses various problems and gives the main parameters of Lyon's 10 MeV/nucleon heavy-ionliner accelerator project."
"This structure uses an essentially T.E. field instead of a T.M. one like in an Alvarez linear accelerator. The drift tubes are alternately connected to conducting plates fastened to the waveguide, so that the device operates on a π mode. The shunt impedance is roughly proportional to ß 1/2, so that this structure is convenient for injectors or heavy ions accelerators. This shunt impedance is higher than for an Alvarez structure for energies lower than about 20 MeV/nucleon in the case of a small diameter of drift-tubes (grid focusing), and lower than a few MeV/nucleon in the case of larger diameters (strong focusing). The wavelengths to be used are longer than in an Alvarez, so that the defocusing forces are weaker and focusing is easier. For a given acceleration, such a machine, using a π mode, can be about twice as short as an Alvarez. A model accelerating deutons from 40 keV to 350 keV has been built and operates properly."
"Field measurements in gaps of different widths have been performed in the electrolytic tank and in a magnetic gap model. From these data the transit time factors and field magnification factors are derived and compared to existing information obtained by Messymesh field calculation and analytical approximation as well."
"The layout of the radio frequency system for a variable-energy variable-mass heavy ion linear accelerator will be described. Results from specially designed vhf amplifier for variable power output as well as the phase and amplitude control system will be reported."
"The properties of electroformed cavities are described. A study program has been devised to investigate electroplated steel model cavities in respect to rf and vacuum performance. Good results have been obtained from an acid copper bath, when loading agents are added."
"A multiple-stage four-sector separated magnet isochronous cyclotron is presently under construction at Indiana University. Ions are to be accelerated by potential drop before injection into the cyclotron stages permitting operation with 1 < υz < 1.5. The large flutter required for this axial strength increases the non-relativistic radial focusing frequency so that υr > 1.1. The υr = 4/3 intrinsic radial quadratic resonance is encountered at ß = 0.43 (100 MeV protons, 300 MeV 3He) but extensive studies indicate that beam deterioration and loss are negligible with the chosen operating parameters. Fourth and higher harmonics of the orbital frequency are to be used for acceleration. A charge-to-mass ratio range of 1/6 ≤ q/M ≤ 1 is planned; this, together with the external ion source, median plane injection, strong focusing and large dimensions, provides an excellent heavy ion capability. A maximum design energy of 200 NeV is planned for protons; maximum energies for other ions are given by E = 240 q2/M MeV. A dee-in-valley design with the very large axial aperture inherent in this facility has many advantages. Among these are the narrow magnet gap, capacitive tuning of the dees, dee voltage increasing with radius, and structural simplifications. It also permits sufficient additional vertical aperture inside the dees for second harmonic rf electrodes permitting asymmetrical square-waving of the energy gain per turn versus rf phase."
"A number of groups are engaged in improvement of synchrocyclotrons in order to increase beam current and improve extraction efficiency and beam precision. This paper reviews the major problems involved in such improvements and the solutions contemplated by the several groups. Goals are beams of 10μa or more with extraction efficiency of at least 50% and a tenfold gain in spatial and energy definition of the beams."
"The mass of steel in the TRIUMF magnet will be approximately 4000 tons. In designing this magnet it has been found that there is considerable interplay between manufacturing methods and their tolerances on the one hand, and the tolerances required by beam dynamics on the. other. This paper reviews the magnet tolerances needed to achieve adequate isochronism and axial focusing, and limit first-harmonic induced radial oscillations and electric dissociation of H-ions. The possibility of separated turn acceleration is also considered."
"The status of the Columbia University Nevis Synchrocyclotron modification program is presented. The machine will be converted to a three-fold symmetry spiral sector focussing AVF synchrocyclotron, having a long duty factor 550 MeV external proton beam. The time average external beam intensity is expected to be between 5 μA and 40 μA. The reasons leading to the particular approach of this conversion program are given."
"The proposed three-fold symmetric and radially increasing magnetic field requires the arcelerating RF field to cover the frequency band from about 26.5 MHz to 18.5 MHz. The peak dee voltage will be between 30 and 50 kV, with the maximum near injection. The repetition rate will be ≥300 per second with the RF turned on for 4%/. of the time. The (single) dee-line structure will be 150 inches wide and between one-quarter and one-half a wavelength long. One of the three pairs of sectoriron shims will be incorporated in the dee and supported on BeO insulators. For the presently favored design, tuning will be accomplished by two rotating capacitors with axes directed towards the center of the magnet. Each rotor will have four layers of 12 blades each. Each set of stator blades will be coupled to four transmission lines which will run to the dee. The rotors will operate near RF ground potential. This design permits effective magnetic shielding of the rotor to minimize eddy current losses. Excitation of the dee will be provided by two grounded-grid, triode oscillators crosscoupled to quarter-wave stubs on the two sides of the dee."
"Computer studies of a regenerative beam extraction system using magnetic peeler-regenerator have been performed. We have also investigated the use of a time varying first harmonic magnetic bump as a beam stretcher. The results indicate, that we can expect a turn separation of the order of 0.8 in. at the mouth of the magnetic channel. The time varying bump makes it possible to stretch the external beam over most of the RF-off time of the acceleration cycle. For the, magnetic channel, a current configuration has been found which does not perturb the main cyclotron field outside itself and reduces the field by 4 kG inside the channel. The step from no field to full field is only 0.2 in. This 4 kG field extending over a distance of 20-in. is sufficient to lead the beam out of the machine."
"Design features of the University of Maryland Isochronous Cyclotron are discussed and a description of initial turn-on and operation is given. The four-sector magnetic field was designed with the aid of a one-third scale model magnet utilizing both the experience with the Grenoble Cyclotron and computer studies at the University of Maryland. The original maximum design energy was increased to 140 MeV protons by modification of the spiral angle after full-scale magnet measurements. The dual RF amplifier chain (25 mW to 250 kW per channel) drives two dees independently in both push-pull and push-push modes over a frequency range of 10-22 MHz from 20 to 90 kV."
"The University of Maryland cyclotron will accelerate protons up to approximately 145 MeV, alpha particles up to approximately 200 MeV, and a variety of other nuclear projectiles to corresponding energies. The experimental space is on two levels, separated vertically by 25 feet, with the upper area further subdivided into isolated experimental vaults. Five beam lines will be provided in the lower area; beam switching and energy analysis of up to E/E = 0.06%/ mm FWHM will be obtained using a 40-inch diameter, N = 0 circular pole magnet. Vertical translation of the beam to the upper area will be obtained by two 60-inch N = 0 double-focusing magnets which will also provide energy resolution up to ΔE/E = 0.012%/ mm FWHM. Using quadrupoles, it will be possible to operate this magnet system in any of three modes: 1) doubly dispersive, 2) singly achromatic, 3) doubly achromati'c. Beam switching in the'upper area to any of six beam lines will be provided by a second 40-inch circular magnet. Design considerations will be given, and several important problems discussed."
"This paper gives a short description of the computations and model studies for the University of Maryland four-sectored magnet and a brief review of important field parameters. The important aspects of the extraction system will be surveyed. Particular attention is given to shaping the field such that problems created by the proximity of the ≥z= 0.5, ≥r = 2≥z and≥r = 1 resonances are minimized."
"The center-region components of the Maryland cyclotron were designed with the maximum degree of flexibility permitted by geometrical restraints. Theoretical studies of initial orbits were based on electric field data, obtained with a fully automated electrolytic tank system. The desired magnetic field shape was determined in a 1/3 scale model magnet. A unique feature in the central magnetic field design is an adjustable cobalt-iron plug which permits to optimize the vertical focusing frequency at various field levels by balancing of the space charge forces. By proper positioning of the ion source and use of slits it is possible to operate either with large duty factor or to select a narrow pulse width."
"The R.F. system of the Philips Compact Isochronous cyclotron is described. It is built completely inside the vacuum chamber resulting in a very compact construction. The Dees are situated in two opposite valleys of the four-fold symmetrical pole faces of the magnet. Two rectangular coaxial lines are connected to the Dees and terminated by movable shorting plates. The 15 kW R.F. oscillator, placed outside the vacuum chamber, is coupled capacitively to one line. The frequency range is continuously variable from 35 to 72 MHz, the maximum Dee voltage being 23 kV."
"A new axial injection system for the 88-inch cyclotron has been constructed. It transports beams from external ion sources axially through the magnet yoke to the median plane of the cyclotron. The optical elements include a bending magnet, electric quadrupoles, and the magnetic field of the cyclotron. Beam monitoring is done with scanning wires. phosphor plates and Faraday cups."
"The Jülich Isochronous Cyclotron had its acceptance tests for the internal beam in March 1968. The beam extraction has been performed since June 1968. At present all extraction elements are in operation and the measurements of the external beam properties will be continued. The specifications of the external beam have been fixed in a contract with the user of the machine in October 1968."
"The Separated-Orbit Cyclotron Experiment (SOCE) will extend and complement earlier theoretical and experimental studies and will provide a unique facility for the evaluation of an operating SOC system. The six-sector, fourturn accelerator will provide maximum energies of 4 MeV for protons and deuterons and 8 MeV for 3He++ and 4He++ ions. The output energy is variable over a 2:1 range by adjustment of the magnetic field and acceleration of the ions at the appropriate harmonic of the ion frequency. Ions are injected into the SOC at one quarter the final energy. The injection system consists of a duoplasmatron ion source, a 500-kV dc accelerator, and a three-cavity linear accelerator. Proton currents in the 10-to 20-mA range are predicted. The principal characteristics of the accelerator are given in Table I. All of the major components have been fabricated and delivered on site except the injector's linac cavities, which are expected shortly. The photograph in Fig. 1 shows the accelerator as seen from the control area on a mezzanine about 40 feet away. The SOC sector magnets and rf cavities are in the approximate location, with the dc injector components in the background. The tops of the magnet yokes have been temporarily removed to permit completion of pole tip alignment. An rf power amplifier will be mounted on the outer wall of each cavity. One of the PA units can be seen in the background (Fig. 1) on a test stand with a water-cooled dummy load."
"Three different accelerating cavities were tested at ORNL for possible use in separated-orbit cyclotrons (SOC). All cavities were operated at about 49.2 MHz and at, or above, design power levels. The largest of these cavities is a prototype for a 10-to 50-MeV proton SOC having a total of 15 beam holes and a maximum accelerating voltage of about 290 kV. In cross-section, the prototype is a wedge-shaped coaxial line. Its overall width is about 230 in.; its height, 82 in.; and the maximum thickness, 67 in. Four tuners are located in the top of the cavity, opposite the open end of the center stub, for adjusting the cavity frequency and voltage distribution. The cavity was operated at various power levels up to a maximum of 66 kW. At this power input, the X-radiation near the cavity increased markedly with increasing power input. Some difficulty was encountered with multipacting, but the problem diminished steadily with operating time. The other two cavities that have been tested will be used in the Separated-Orbit Cyclotron Experiment (SOCE). One of the cavities is for use in the cyclotron and the other will be used in the injector. Both cavities were operated under vacuum and at power levels in excess of that required."
"A new all solid state dee voltage amplitude regulator has been built for the MSU Cyclotron. It should lead to a factor of two improvement in the energy resolution of the external beam with a consequent increase in the ratio of beam-on-target to internal beam for most experiments. The RF drive to the final amplifier is regulated at a 10 mW level via an FET tetrode amplifier (Fig. 1). The gain of the FET is controlled by a signal proportional to the difference between a reference voltage and the sum of demodulated signals from each dee. Protective circuits are included which remove RF drive to the final amnlifier in the event of severe dee sparking, and limit final grid and anode voltages as guards against clumsy cyclotron operators. Peak-to-peak noise levels of the dee voltage of less than 0.07% are achieved and with careful adjustments noise levels of less than 0.05% have been obtained. Since the cyclotron is usually operated with internal beam pulse-widths of less than 0.5 nsec. corresponding to an energy spread due to phase width alone of 0.04%, noise on the dee voltage makes a significant contribution to the over-all energy resolution of the external beam."
"A magnetic channel capable of guiding deflected 60 MeV protons through the fringing field of an AVF cyclotron without perturbing inner orbits, has been tested in a 0.394 scale model. The full scale channel will be composed of a 1010 steel cylindrical shell 3.00 in. O. D., 1.18 in. I.D., and 10 in. long with an external dipole winding extending to 5.92 in. O.D. A cosinoidal distribution of current density is approximated by dividing the winding into 16 sections, with centers about 22.5° apart, and by making Nθo = No cos θ, where N is the number of turns in a section and θ is the altitude angle of the center of a section. Scaling the model measurements to full size, the power is 14 kW with 3/8 in. square O.D. and 1/8 in. round I.D. water-cooled copper conductors at 330 A, and the field at the midpoint inside the channel is reduced from 7000 to 90 G, with a 20 G/in. gradient across the channel opening on the median plane. As close as 5 in. from the outside edge of the coil, the first harmonic introduced is 1.1 G. Without dipole current, the field in the channel is 1560 G with a 16.2 G first harmonic, at the same distance."
"The emittance and spot size of a cyclotron's external beam is strongly affected by the magnetic fringe field of the cyclotron. This paper describes the design and performance of a magnetic channel which produces a nearly circular low emittance beam at the cyclotron exit port by controlling the fringe field gradients. The prediction and realization of desirable fringe field grzadients is discussed, and the performance of the magnetic channel in The Cyclotron Corporation's Model CS-15 Cyclotron is reported."
"In the Oak Ridge Isochronous Cyclotron (ORIC) there had been unexplained beam loss when protons were accelerated to maximum energy. Since recent successes in computing trim-coil currents lend assurance that the magnetic field is reasonably isochronous, the computed orbit properties can now be compared with the observed beam behavior. The orbit properties computed for proton acceleration indicate that the 60-MeV beam passes through the vr - vz =l resonance; computed and measured radii for beam loss are in excellent agreement. Computations also show that the beam is passing through, and in some cases closely following, the essential resonance 3vr - vz = 3. Under certain operating conditions where it had been very difficult to accelerate the beam to full radius, the valley coils (which can vary the axial focusing strength over a wide range) can now be adjusted so as to avoid the vr - vz = 1 coupling resonances and allow acceleration of the beam to full radius without significant beam loss."
"The NAL booster - accelerator radio-frequency system design is described in detail. This rapid-cycling system is ferrite tuned from 30 MHz to 53 MHz. Each high-power module has an RF-output rating of 100 kW provided by a cascode amplifier which is a removable part of the cavity assembly. The low-level portion of the system corrects for both systematic and non-systematic tracking errors using a single set of wide-band beam sensors. In the design of a storage-ring RF system, the control of the beam-cavity interaction is a basic problem. This paper describes an arrange ment of TEM mode cavity, cascode power amplifier, beam pickup and feedback control loop to achieve a cavity-gap impedance of about 10 ohms over a frequency range from the synchrotron-oscillation frequency (a few Hz) to the higherharmonics of the bunch frequency. The design center radiofrequencyis 53.1 MHz."
"Design principles and main performance data of the electronic systems used in the Serpukhov proton synchrotron, to generate the accelerating field, to control acceleration processes, and to measure accelerated beam parameters are described."
"The synchronous transfer of beam from the booster into the NAL main ring results in a partial turn of beam circulating in the main ring. This situation presents large step changes in beam-loading to the main-ring RF system which must be handled by the cavity-regulation loops. The behavior of the main-ring RF system under these conditions has been studied with the aid of the IBM S/360 Continuous System Modeling Program (CSMP). The CSMP provides an analysis of system behavior starting from a system block diagram and a description of the driving functions. This paper describes the RE system under study and the response predicted by the program to a variety of beam-loading conditions."
"Dielectric loaded waveguides of rectangular cross section are considered as synchronous traveling wave particle separators. These structures support two linearly independent modes: those which have no electric field perpendicular to the dielectric, and those which have no magnetic field perpendicular to the dielectric. Both modes have suitable transverse deflection forces with phase velocities which can be slower than the speed of light. Degeneracies and dispersion relations are discussed. The theoretical conclusions are supported by experimental studies which include slotted line and bead perturbation measurements."
"This paper discusses a long-pulse, line-type modulator facility which has been built to operate either one or two SLAC-type klystrons for long-pulse RF particle separator studies. The modulator is capable of driving two klystrons to a peak beam power of 80 MW, 250 kW average, for 50μs pulses or one klystron to a peak beam power of 40 MW, 125 kW average. The modulator has two 25 μs pulse-forming networks which can be operated individually to drive a single klystron or in parallel to drive two klystrons from a common pulse transformer. In addition, test results for long-pulse operation of the SLAC-type klystron are presented."
"In order to improve the RF capture in PPA, calculations and experiments have been perfarmed with higher harmonic terms added to the accelerating voltage. Computer calculations of the synchrotron phase space acceptance, using the phase potential, have shown that by adding the second harmonic it should be possible to increase the acceptance of PPA at capture by a factor of 2. Since in PPA the acceptance increases with energy, second harmonic needs to be added only during the first part of the acceleration and a suitable voltage program for the RF has been calculated. Initial experiments with the second harmonic added during the first 300 microseconds of the acceleration cycle showed an intensity gain in excess of 50%. Although only described for PPA, the method can easily be adapted to other machines."
"Expressions for radial and transverse temperature profiles in a ferrite disc heated internally by a high frequency alternating magnetic field of an accelerating cavity were developed from Fourier's equation for heat conduction. These expressions were further utilized in equations for thermal stresses to determine the pattern of stress distribution inside ferrites. Numerical results were then plotted to facilitate engineering evaluation of cooling methods, It became evident that solid copper plate of reasonable thickness could not adequately cope with the higher heat dissipation requirements of the AGS Conversion Program. Copper cooling plate with internal water passages, however, was found to be an effective heat sink for the ferrites. Derived equations are quite general and therefore could be applied to any thermal problem that is similar in character."
"Ferrite bias equipment for the RF resonators of high-repetition-rate synchrotrons is expensive because of the high voltage necessary to overcome the back EMF of the unsaturated ferrite at the beginning of the sweep and the high current necessary to saturate the ferrite at the end of the sweep. The high-frequency resonators of the Omnitron, which sweep in 8 ms require 70 V initially, but only 20 V after the second millisecond, when the current reaches 5 kA. The voltage remains low for the remainder of the sweep, while the current increases to 20 kA. To meet these requirements as inexpensively as possible, a pulse-type power supply is used during the first 2 ms, and a high-current power supply through the remainder of the sweep. Smooth current transfer is an inherent property of the circuit. Inductance, which is surprisingly costly, is kept to a minimum by a \"sandwich\" bus bar technique. A silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) switch reverses the current every other sweep so that the full hystereses loop of the ferrite is used. A regulator circuit forces the bias current to follow a reference pulse."
"The input data needed for engineering computations on ferrite for cavity tuning prove to be almost nonexistent in industry or private research. It would appear that the accelerator designer's choice is either a) accept crude input data and play safe by overdesign, or b) take time out to assemble a measuring system to permit a close design. We chose the latter alternative; this paper describes our digital measuring set for major and minor hysteresis loops in ferrite. The B integrator operates under a hardwire program with digital drift and zero correction. A small control computer formats the output data for typewriter, cards, paper tape, or magnetic tape. A code run on a separate computer fits the measured data points to any one of several compact series expressions for the B-H loop, presents analogue plots and derives numbers for permeability, stored energy and Q."
"Design of distributed power amplifiers has been simplified through the use of a set of design charts and simplifying circuit techniques. A circuit in which the anode and grid lines are built from bridge-T constant-resistance networks seems to be best. These lines have an image impedance that is resistive and of constant value for all frequencies, and therefore do not require terminating half sections. For a given characteristic impedance and shunt capacitance, the bridge-T lines have about twice the bandwidth of the constant-K lines. The design of the ferrite transformers for matching the anode and grid lines to standard line impedances has been simplified by means of design charts and tables. These amplifiers are simple to build and very stable. A 3.5-kW amplifier which operates from 1.0 to 70 MHz is used to illustrate the technique."
"The electronic and ionic theories of vacuum breakdown under the influence of RF fields are discussed. Theoretical calculations indicate that phenomena involving electrode ions in gaps of 0.2 cmandlargerare strongly influencedby time varying fields in the frequency range of 20 to 120 MHz. Similar gap conditions do not significantly alter breakdown when only field emission electrons are considered. Experimental equipment which can compare breakdown at RF to that at 60 Hz has been constructed. The results of experiments at 21. 4 MHz are best predicted by the electron theories of vacuum breakdown."
"The most difficult safety task is to identify a potential hazard or admit that it exists. Corollaries to existence are the magnitude of the potential accidents, and the probability of their occurrence. Once the hazards are identified there appears to be no shortage of guidelines and rules. But collecting rules is not the total answer to safety either. There must be a reasonable correspondence between the rules and the practice while the hazard exists. AEC safety guidelines for high-energy accelerator facilities are reviewed, and a bibliography of applicable codes is given in the Appendix. Several current safety problems are discussed. Liquid hydrogen distance tables seem to be fixed now. The forced ventilation of buildings containing liquid hydrogen has not afforded any protection against the two major fires resulting from large hydrogen spills. The possibility of spark-induced explosions in hydrogen purifiers or liquefiers is calculated to be very high and emphasizes the need for a low-temperature helium-gas purge."
"Neutron dose-equivalent rate transmission tables for the lateral shielding of high-energy (> 0.8 GeV) electron and proton beams have been calculated to assist a shield designer who needs realistic shielding data in a short time, and who may be required to readjust his results frequently as machine design is modified. These tables give the dose-equivalent rate transmitted normally to a particle beam through an average shielding material equivalent in nuclear properties to aluminum with varying concentrations of water, and through iron. Though designed for use in cylindrical geometries, they can be applied to point-source geometries as well."
"Measurements are reported of the major dose contributing components of the secondary radiation produced by the interaction of 7 GeV particles in external targets. Standard dosimetry techniques were used involving flux density determination from activation detectors and dose equivalent estimation using threshold techniques, films and thermoluminescent detectors. Comparison is made between measured values of neutron flux density and those calculated using a simple shield model."
"Particle accelerator safety problems are primarily those of activation and shielding. The phenomena of activations from various nuclear particles and from photons is relatively well known. Use of low activation materials at exposed locations and of adequate shielding at all locations is basic to the art of constructing an accelerator facility that will be safe in operation and require minimum cooling time. Side effects must also be considered relative to safety. These may include fire, heat, noxious gas, electricity and possibly sound, each of which may prove hazardous to personnel and may interfere with successful experimentation. The know-how and the materials existing today make possible the design and construction of large and small particle accelerators of various types that are radiologically safe both in operation and after shutdown. Good design and construction, followed by routine safety procedures associated with such facilities, will accomplish this objective."
"The high beam current in the Los Alams Meson Physics Facility (LAMPF) accelerator constitutes a safety hazard to both personnel and equipment. It must be possible to inhibit beam injection rapidly and reliably in the event any condition occurs along the accelerator which will result in a beam spill. A hardware \"fast protect\" system based on transmission line principles has been developed which will provide a beam-inhibit signal in <10 μs after detection of an alarm condition anywhere along the 3000-ft length of the facility. The system also provides a permissive function to prevent beam injection, should the facility not be in a condition to accept beam. An indication that a shutdown occurred, along with an identification of the source which initiated it, is passed through an interface to the central control computer. The hardware is fail-safe to single component failures and features computer testing of the system integrity. Some details of the design, related to device-selection, ground-isolation, computer faultdetection, and provision for pulsing the rf out of the beam time are discussed. Comments relating to a prototype system installed on a computer-controlled electron linac are presented."
"The linac safety interlock system is based on solid state computer logic modules. This approach eliminates many of the problems associated with conventional relay interlock circuits and also make unauthorized tampering more difficult. The system incorporates duplicate logic on all functions and an error check section which senses logic malfunction. The various interlock operating modes are programmed by means of plug-in printed circuit boards which allow operation only in a specific mode. Selector switches provide logic level signals to inputs for test purposes but in so doing break the main interlock chain to ensure that interlocks are not overridden. Authorized bypassing of minor interlocks can be effected by the use of one key--vital interlocks require the use of an additional key held by the Radiation Safety Officer."
"Experience indicates that periodic modification to personnel interlock system operating procedures (nuisance modifications) increase user awareness. A modular interlock system which permits easy modification of the forced inspection sequence has been designed and installed at the RPI Accelerator Laboratory. The system provides for forced area inspection within specified time periods. Audible signals alert workers when the inspection is in progress."
"A radiation monitoring system having a very wide dynamic range and providing continuous audible information feedback to the user was built for the 55-MeV Princeton A. V. F. Cyclotron. A remote sensor in each room consists of a plastic scintillator and photomultiplier. At the control room there is a DC amplifier with output proportional to the log of the anode current and hence to the dose rate. This is examined by two independently adjustable set points with DTL outputs which establish limits for human occupancy and radiation damage to equipment respectively. For each channel discrete pulses from the photomultiplier are also amplified and operate a loudspeaker placed near the detector. When the lower set point is tripped the speaker broadcasts a sirenlike tone. A failure condition logic signal is generated if discrete pulses are not present when the low level set point is not tripped. Although this type of detector does not directly respond to slow neutrons, it does indicate the radiation hazzard by detecting the fast neutrons and capture gamma rays which accompany them in a cyclotron environment."
"Two hands and a crane are controlled from the ring centre via 300 m long cables and observed with three closed-loop TV chains. This installation, with more than 30 remote controlled functions, is capable of performing work along 40 m of the PS ring tunnel. The second hand, which has been developed at CERN, executes the more delicate work such as disconnecting ordinary water and electrical cornnectors of different types. One test operation was the removal of a vacuum tank with a septum magnet of the ejection system. Althougn this equipment was not designed for remote handling, only the connection to the power cable could not be removed from a distance. All the other work - vacuum connections to chamber and. pumps, electrical and water connections, lifting out onto a chariot - was done with no one present in the ring tunnel."
"Measurements were made of neutron fluxes along a labyrinth with four bends using activation detectors. The neutrons were created by a 3-GeV proton beam striking an eight-inch thick Pb target located either upstream, opposite, or downstream from the first leg of the labyrinth. Results of the activities and flux measurements are given, normalized to 1010 protons/second."
"This paper reveals a new high-power beam dump concept developed at SLAC. Its principal features are relatively low production costs, simple assembly procedures, compactness, and rather high power absorption capacity. The main power absorption medium is a water-cooled bed of 1 cm diameter aluminum spheres contained in a tube. This \"Sphere Beam Dump\" is rated at 500 kW and its production costs are compatible with other designs at powers as low as 50 kW. The main features of the dump are discussed with emphasis on heat transfer in the bed of spheres, detection of burnout, and flow and mixing of the coolant. A prototype of such a dump was successfully tested in the electron beam at powers up to 495 kW and at an energy of 18 GeV. The experimental results are discussed and potential applications for other high-power absorbers are indicated. A catalytic hydrogen-oxygen recombiner for removal of radiolytically produced hydrogen from such a dump and other water-cooled power absorbers is described in the second part of the paper. Such topics as operational parameters, instrumentation, safety, and performance are stressed."
"The beam losses expected in the NAL 100-GeV storage rings are reviewed from the point of view of radiation damage to components and required biological shielding. It is shown that the required shielding is essentially the same as adopted for the NAL main accelerator: about 0.9 kG/cm2."
"A comparatively simple and inexpensive facility is being completed to irradiate targets in the external beam of the Princeton A. V. F Cyclotron. The target can be removed and used relatively quickly. The target itself is held and cooled by a version of the Berkeley 88\" Cyclotron target holder block, which also acts as a beam stop. We estimate on the basis of our calculations and Berkeley's experience that the block will easily handle the 3.36 kW we expect to deliver with a 60 μA beam of 56 MeV protons or similar beams of other ions. The target holder block is lowered into a vacuum chamber on a supporting column which provides the block with cooling water and electrical leads for monitoring. The chamber is surrounded by shielding to attenuate fast neutrons during bombardment and to protect personnel handling the block afterwards. After irradiation the block is purged of water, vacuum is broken, and the block is lowered into a lead cart through a gate valve at the bottom of the facility. The block is then taken to a shielded handling area, where it can be disassembled quickly."
"A beam collimator and shutter assembly has been designed and fabricated to define and interrupt the high maximum areal power density (30 kW/cm2) external beam anticipated for the Princeton A. V. F. Cyclotron. Pairs of graphite cylinders which rotate at 300 r/min about parallel axes a precisely adjustable distance apart, define the beam in each of the horizontal and vertical directions. A similar rotating graphite cylinder which is raised and lowered by an air cylinder operating in a fail-safe mode functions as the beam shutter. The power of the beam incident of these cylinders is dissipated by thermal radiation to surrounding water-cooled structures. Tests with an electron gun have shown that the slit cylinders can successfully dissipate a beam power of 2.2 kW with an areal density power of 10 kW/cm2 with no indication of deterioration or overheating of critical components. Calculations indicate power levels up to 5.0 kW with 50kW/cm2 areal density may be tolerated by these slits."
"A unique liquid hydrogen target capable of handling SLAC's high current (30 mA), high energy (20 GeV) electron beam is described. A small axial fan submerged in the liquid hydrogen circulates the liquid through the target cell and heat exchanger. Density variations as high as 10% due to beam heating were experienced in similar targets which did not employ this circulating technique. Experimental results show that in the circulating target these density variations were reduced to less than ±1% with heat fluxes as high as 5 kW/cm2 per cm of target length."
"Commercially available helium gas refrigerators with capacities of 5 and 10 W at 20° K are being used at the Argonne National Laboratory's (A N L) Zero Gradient Synchrotron (Z G S) to condense hydrogen gas for liquid hydrogen targets. Excellent reliability of operation has been obtained. A standard, universal system has been designed and duplicate systems have been constructed to meet the increasing demand for additional targets. Increased safety has been achieved by reducing the amount of hydrogen at the experiment site. Decreased cost of operation has also been realized. The system design discussed in this paper has been used on small (2 liters maximum) liquid hydrogen targets only. A system design using a remotely located cryogenic helium gas generating refrigerator has been proposed. Such a system would have larger capacity and should be applicable to almost any size liquid hydrogen target."
"Absolute measurements have been made of the charge transferred from thin, insulated, aluminum plate targets in vacuum by 25 GeV protons. The results are reported for various thicknesses, orientations and bias of the insulated targets. Beam flux measurements were made by means of the 12C(p, pn)11C monitor reaction using polyethylene foils. Applications of these targets to beam intensity and profile measurements at the AGS are discussed."
"A new targetry system within the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) changes target manipulators with short interruptions of beam time, no loss of ring vacuum, and minimum exposure of personnel to radiation. The system consists of an insertion-extraction apparatus and two targeting manipulators which use miniature trolley rails. Having no external connecting drives or wires, the manipulators easily shuttle in and out of the ring vacuum chamber. Positions of the targets on each manipulator are remotely displayed in the ZGS control room in direct coordinate readout form."
"A \"time-optimized\" control system to drive meson targets into critical positions has been developed and used in the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). A current drive coil reacts with the magnetic guide field to hold the target in any desired vertical position. This position is repeated each cycle regardless of operational changes of magnetic field, times of targeting, etc. This system achieves proper \"bang-bang\" acceleration and deceleration by learning and storing information regarding its behavior on previous cycles. At the end of its 20 ms optimized travel, a linear servo mode takes control to maintain the position reached. In the linear servo mode, programmed variations in target height may be made to compliment an experiment."
"This paper will describe a Goniometer built to hold a diamond crystal which has been operated by twelve scientists approximately 2000 hours within 140 milliradians (8°) in two crystal axes and one longitudinal axis, reproducible within 5x10-5 radian with an average backlash of 5x10-4 inches in an ultra-high vacuum and high radiation environment. This Goniometer will precisely position a diamond crystal so that the circulating electron beam of the synchrotron will strike the crystal at a particular angle to the crystal axes. For certain values of this angle, coherent effects produce modifications to the nonnal brenmsstrahlung spectrum resulting in a quasi-monochromatic polarized photon beam.1-5"
"This paper is a condensation of an unfinished report on accelerator cooling systems. When published, it will be made available to interested parties. It is based on approximately twenty years experience with a number of accelerators, on materials testing and engineering analysis, and on information obtained from other laboratories. 1. The relative cost of cooling depends on geographic location and atmospheric conditions, on cooling water supply temperature and temperature range, on the cooling method used, and on the degree of cooling-system centralization. 2. The cooling water supply temperature and temperature range affect the operating costs of other accelerator components. 3. Many materials are available for use in low-conductivity water systems. All have limitations."
"Design problems of the magnet and its power supply, the preinjector, the vacuum chamber, the ejection and beam transport systems, and some experiment are considered."
"Two types of bending magnets are used to match the beam width in the separated-function FODO lattice of the main ring of the NAL 200-GeV accelerator. Bending magnet B1 has an aperture of 5 in × 1.5 in, an overall dimension of 25 in × 16 in and a 12-turn coil; bending magnet B2 has an aperture of 4 in × 2 in, an overall dimension of 25 in × 14 in, and a 16-turn coil. With proper geometry and a small amount of pole-face crenellation, the good-field regions of these magnets extend over ~80% qf the aperture to beyond 20 kG. At 18 kG which corresponds to 400 GeV the saturation is only 3.7% and the excitation current is 4746 A. The magnetic -field design is performed using computer program TRIM. The factors of consideration and techniques involved in the design will be discussed."
"The main magnet system of the 200-GeV synchrotron of the National Accelerator Laboratory will be directly powered from the utilities without the use of local energy storage. The utility connections, power supply arrangement, and control philosophy have been adjusted to accommodate the difficulties generated by the direct connection. A system analysis was performed to ascertain if any stability or utility-line disturbance would be generated by the connection. Sophisticated controls will be utilized to minimize the effect of utility-line variations on the accelerator regulation. The result is a total system with no apparent degradation in the performance of the accelerator or the utility system."
"The paper gives a short up-to-date account of the theoretical and practical investigations that have been carried out during the past 21/2 years into the possibility of supplying the ±160 MW magnet pulse of the 300 GeV accelerator directly from the \"mains\"."
"The history of extended periods of lost experimental time, due to mechanical and electrical failures in the flywheel motor-generator (M-G) sets used by pulsed synchrotron magnets, indicates a necessity for standby facilities. The idea of pulsing synchrotron magnets directly off the utility lines without interposing a flywheel M-G set has become very active in recent years. Investigations have shown this to be an extremely attractive alternative for the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). The switchover, in the event of an M-G set failure, can be made within a matter of hours; the first costs are lowest, operating costs are reduced and reliability is increased; and it can be built in stages from partial energy to full energy capability. The first phase will be to install a 35 MVA transformer capable of pulsing the ZGS to an energy of 9 GeV with a line voltage fluctuation of less than 1%. Low voltage taps will be available for low energy pulsing to study the effects on the utility system. The second phase will provide for bypassing one-half of the rectifier supplies during flattop. This limits the voltage fluctuation to a value consistent with continuous operation. In the full energy phase, a second transformer will be added and the system kVARs will be reduced by switching precharged capacitors."
"Switching magnets, for time sharing of beam lines, can be pulsed directly from the ac power line if it does not cause objectionable line voltage fluctuations (flicker). Switching circuits, which are less expensive and more reliable than conventional magnet power supplies are often all that are needed. Of particular interest for beam lines of the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) was a test to determine the permissible attenuation of 1 cycle of the 60 Hz power line every 2 s. Other tests included multiple cycle attenuation at different repetition rates and square wave modulation of the ac power line. Thresholds of perception and the distribution of opinions on the flicker disturbance as functions of voltage attenuation were determined for viewing TV and reading by incandescent light. The results of these tests are reported and can be used to calculate the permissible magnitude of pulsed current in a given ac power system."
"Ripple frequencies in the ring magnet guide field of the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) range from less than 1 Hz to several kHz. Filter systems which reduce the ripple components to negligible magnitudes are described, as is the use of these systems for long, magnetically controlled beam spills. High frequency ripple is attenuated by an improved LCR filter. Low frequency ripple is reduced by a feedback loop from B to the rectifier phase control of the ring magnet power supply (RMPS). The attenuation of the mid-frequency components is accomplished with a feedback loop from B to a ripple bucking coil in each octant of the ZGS. Two modes of operation for magnetically controlled beam spills without RF structure are discussed. In one mode the feedback to the low frequency loop. is a signal from a spilled beam monitor. In the second mode the spilled beam monitor drives both the low frequency and the mid frequency loops."
"In mid-December 1966, severe fracturing of the Bevatron generator pole dovetails was discovered before the failure became catastropnic. New poles had to be procured and installed on both generators. This refurbishing consumed six months during which the Bevatron was inoperable--raising doubts in the scientists minds whether the failure could indeed be termed noncatastrophic. The failure was eventually attributed to a fatigue condition arising from increased alternating stress loads associated with generator speed changes during flattop. When the generators were returned to service a restriction was placed on the length of flattop. Cracks again began to be seen on the outermost laminations after several months. Many means were investigated to make corrections by mechanical changes, but all such schemes were repugnant because of large costs and extended shutdown for installation. In parallel with the mechanical studies, electrical engineers were investigating different electrical approaches - schemes that would achieve flattopping but minimize generator speed change. In June 1968 a test installation was made of the most promising method. The restricted flattop then being allowed was achieved with less generator speed change than occurs during normal full-energy pulsing. Flattop times have gradually increased from 0.6 to 2 s, while generator speed change has still been held to no more than normal pulsing. No propagation of existing cracks or initiation of new cracks has been observed, but careful surveillance continues."
"A possible method of increasing the duty cycle of the CEA electron synchrotron to perhaps twice that now achieved, by current pulsing a one-turn winding around all 48 synchrotron magnet backlegs is described. A half sinusoid of current applied to the winding in such a way as to flatten the magnetic field at its maximum value can, in principle, increase the time interval when ΔB/B is less than ¼% from 500 μsec normally to about 1000 μsec. Several aspects of flat topping by this method are discussed, e.g. magnet power circuit effects, costs, and other peripheral effects on radio frequency power, beam bumps, and shielding."
"Currently a total of six dc magnet power supplies, ranging in size from 1.6 MW to 6.0 MW are in operation at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC). Five of these supplies are static converters, using step-down transformers and thyristors, while the sixth one is a two-unit motor-generator set. Certain design criteria have evolved, dictated by specific needs at SLAC and by operating experience obtained over the three-year period during which this equipment was installed. Primary power distribution is at 12.47 kV. Vacuum switches in place of circuit breakers incorporating special protective equipment to prevent complications have been successfully used to do the frequent switching required by the loads. Provisions have been made to permit reconnection of the output for use with the various loads. All static converters use oil-filled transformers, most of which are of special design. Twelve-pulse rectifier systems using SCR's are employed throughout, and are operated in such a way that in at least one case the inherently poor power factor of phase-controlled converters can be improved."
"AC, or cyclic, energy losses were determined in geometrically similar solenoids wound with single-core, untwisted-multicore, and twisted-multicore composite superconductor. The losses were larger in the untwisted-multicore conductor than in the corresponding single-core case. When the multicore conductor was twisted, the losses were markedly reduced. The multicore conductor, when both twisted and untwisted, was remarkably free of flux jumps; thus the filament diameter of 0.0013 in. may be small enough to provide intrinsic stability."
"A superconducting solenoid was incorporated into a physics experiment at the LRL 184-inch cyclotron. The magnet was kept superconducting for the entire run of 5½ months. The solenoid has a 4-1/4 in. diameter warm bore and an overall length of 3-1/2 ft. The field intensity is 60 kG. The proposed conventional solenoid which it displaced was 11 ft long. Buried in a steel and concrete shielding wall, the solenoid was the least accessible of all components in the experiment. This condition imposed great emphasis on the reliability of the coil and cryostat structure. The cryostat was cooled by direct evaporation of liquid helium (LHe) and liquid nitrogen (LN). The LHe supply Dewar and vacuum pump were located 25 ft from the magnet in a region accessible only with accelerator beam off. Liquidhelium automatic fill controls and LN supply Dewars were located 40 ft from the magnet in a region adjacent to the experiment control room. The solenoid was energized continuously by the power supply--no persistent mode switch was provided."
"Two sizes of narrow quadrupole magnets (8 and 12 in. diam) have been designed and built at Berkeley for use in Bevatron experiments. The quadrupole magnets have a small width for the given aperture, so two or more secondary beams can look at the same target at small production angles. The computer program RNIL was used to develop the pole-tip contour, and the resulting design produced a quadrupole with very small harmonic content. Measurements of the line integral for the 8-in. quadrupole at a gradient of 2800 G/in., measured at a radius of 3.67 in., give harmonic contents, expressed as per cent of second harmonic, of 0.1% for the sixth, ≤0.03% for the tenth, and 0.05% for the fourteenth."
"Protons with momenta up to 28 GeV/c will be ejected from the CERN Proton Synchrotron (CPS) transferred via two beam transfer channels, each about 500 m long and injected into each of the two Intersecting Storage Rings (ISR) which are being constructed at CERN. At 1/4 betatron wavelength downstream of the injection septum magnet a fast pulsed inflector deflects the beam over an angle of 2.5 mrad onto the injection orbit. This pulsed inflector consists of two delay-line type magnets each 1.5 m long, which operate in ultra high vacuum. The C-shaped ferrite magnets have a gap width of 44.5mm and a gap height of 20 mm. The useful magnetic field region is more than 40 mm wide. A prototype inflector has been constructed with all auxiliary electrical elements, one magnet and two UHV tanks. The 2.1 μsec long magnetic pulses are generated by discharging a coaxial high voltage cable via a deuterium thyratron into the magnet and its matched terminating resistor of 14 Ω. The droop on the magnetic field flat top is 1% and the transients on the flat top and at 1 μsec after the pulse are within ± 1%. The magnet has been tested at its maximum required operating voltage of 21.5 kV and, additionally, at 25 kV in a vacuum of 10-10 torr."
"The injection path at the Cambridge Electron Accelerator requires a 10 milliradian inflection to insert the 130 MeV electrons into the synchrotron orbit. A fast pulsed ferrite magnet has been constructed, and is in routine use as the inflector. The ferrite is shaped to provide a magnetic field gradient of 38% per inch required by the design of the injection transport system. The pulser uses coaxial cable as a delay line, switched by a deuterium thyratron. The 750-nanosecond 400-ampere pulse has a fall time of less than 200 nanoseconds, allowing a synchrotron orbit fill of approximately 75%."
"A system is considered where an unloaded ac generator is triggered to pulse an inductive load in a decaying train of oscillations. This is suitable for pulsing AGS ring multipoles where the required magnetic energy is a few kilojoules. The decaying oscillations serve to demagnetize the load. Since the output impedance of the generator is low and the magnetic coupling coefficient between stator and rotor is close to unity the short circuit currents are high and a significant amount of reactive energy is available for the load magnet."
"Detailed electrical and mechanical parameters and design is given for thin septum type magnets and supplies required in the final step of the slow extracted beam in the 30 GeV Alternating Gradient Synchrotron at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Thermal considerations for both magnets and power supplies are of prime importance. Primary and secondary protection schemes are described. Radiation hardening of the magnet components is greatly emphasized due to the expected severe radiation damage on these components."
"This report describes the use of cubic spline fitting to compute, for the median plane z = 0, the vertical magnetic-field component, B(u, w, o) and its first, second, and third partial derivatives from a set of measurements of B at mesh points (uI, wj). The arguments (u, w) may be either rectilinear (x, y) or polar (θ, R). The results of the fitting are used for a third-order approximation of the field components Bu, Bw, and Bz at any point (u, w, z) within the domain of measurement for (u, w) and for small z. These field components are used in the equations of motion for tracking charged particles through the magnetic field. In particular, the application of this process to the magnetic field of the Bevatron (Berkeley) is discussed."
"Aluminum conductor has been used by various other groups in magnet construction but this has been the exception rather than the rule. At SLAC (Stanford Linear Accelerator Cente), after two years experience with the use of aluminum conductor for magnets, we are approaching the point where in large magnets, copper coils are becoming the exception. Our experience indicates that by using aluminum instead of copper for large magnets, we can make a saving of approximately 25% on the cost of these magnets. But to achieve these savings, full advantage must be taken of the characteristics of aluminum. It cannot be treated purely as a material substitute for copper."
"The proposed system for connecting the power and water to the main-accelerator magnets is designed to require a minimum of maintenance. Its design permits remote-controlled manipulator removal should this be necessary at some future date. Copper pipes conduct both power and low-conductivity water to the magnets. All connections in the cooling-bus system, the connections to it, and connections within the magnet coil manifolds are either brazed or welded."
"Improvements are planned for the Berkeley Heavy Ion Linear Accelerator which will make possible the acceleration of all elements from hydrogen to uranium to 7.5 MeV/nucleon. The improved system will consist of a 2.7 MV dc injector, a new 11 meter-long prestripper linac and the existing 27 meter long poststripper linac which will be extended to 37 meters. Baffles in the latter portion of this cavity will separate it into individually excited segments to provide completely variable energy from 3 to 7.5 MeV/nucleon. To provide the lighter heavy ion beams, at energies acceptable for biological research and medical therapy, a 25 meter diameter rapid cycling alternating gradient synchrotron is proposed. With this machine fully stripped ions from the Hilac with M≤20 can be accelerated to energies up to 500 MeV/nucleon. Details of the synchrotron design will closely follow those developed for the Omnitron and a prototype of the Omnitron accelerating resonator will be used."
"The nondestructive beam detector systems originated at Argonne National Laboratory allow continuous measurement of the proton beam position and beam profile in the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) during the accelerating and targeting cycle. Nondestructive detection is accomplished by collecting the ions produced by the proton beam ionizing residual gas in the vacuum chamber. The amplitude of the electrical currents obtained by collecting these ions onto a variety of electrodes depends on the distribution of the protons in the beam. The characteristics of the electric signals make them suitable as inputs to computer systems. Both analog and digital techniques have been used to determine beam position and profile. These beam detection systems have been used for measuring the properties of the 50 MeV beam between the injector linac and the synchrotron ring; for studying the steering and the radial growth of the size of the beam during acceleration; and for measurements during the targeting sequences."
"Operation, tuning and monitoring of the multiple target external proton beam (EPB) at the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) is described. Instrumentation presently installed permits continuous, nondestructive, quantitative, on-line computer monitoring of beam spot size, position, and intensity at each experimenter's target or any desired location. The capability of a rapid emittance measurement also is provided. This measurement serves as input to computer programs, described elsewhere, which calculates the emittance and the necessary quadrupole settings for required beam profiles along the beam line. As a check, the resulting beam profiles are instantly measurable at appropriate locations and any necessary final adjustments to provide more exact required conditions are then accomplished."
"The control computer system at the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) contains a 20\" cathoderay graphic display system that can generate points, vectors, and characters. A variety of software routines have been written to operate the ZGS monitor on-line to obtain the required data, to perform the necessary calculations, and to generate the specific display patterns. Two dimensional displays describe accelerator parameters that are functions of time, of a space coordinate, or of a second machine parameter such as ring magnet field. \"Three dimensional\", displays (isometric), such as tune as a function of radial position and of ring magnet field, can also be generated. Many of the display patterns can be updated quickly enough so that the operator can follow the changes during an adjustment or optimization procedure. Experience shows that this display system can present complex information to the ZGS operator in a form that is easily understood. Permanent records of display information can be made by photography, by using the 30\" X-Y plotter system, and by using the line printer. A variety of examples are discussed."
"Techniques used to set up and optimize the slow external beam at the Brookhaven AGS are described. These include television, counter telescopes, spill monitors, insulated plates, secondary emission chambers and irradiation of foils. Servo loops used to control the intensity and correct the momentum dispersion of the beam are described."
"The increasing number of concurrently operating experiments and our expanding experimental areas are creating a need for more effective communications between the AGS and its users. Effective operation of a large accelerator complex such as the AGS requires the enthusiastic cooperation of all its support and experimental groups. In an effort to provide these groups with both instantaneous and long term machine information, we use area display boards, public address announcements, telephone communications and scheduling meetings. To complement these systems, a visual information network has been devised which provides machine status, performance data and scheduling information through the use of a closed circuit television system. The experimental groups on their part provide coded operational status information to the Main Control Room where it is processed and displayed. The chronological status of the AGS machine and of each of the experimental groups is recorded by a computer which periodically scans and records this information so that it may be analyzed and presented on command."
"A new method of energy spread measurement is described which permits a quick evaluation of the percentage of the PS Linac beam inside the acceptance range of energy spread for the PS Synchrotron. The execution of the measurement, for which a minimum of two beam pulses is lost, is under control of the PS Control Computer, IBM 1800, and makes use of two beam slits, a triplet lens and a beam deflecting magnet. The result of the measurement is simply obtained as the ratio of two beam current transformer readings. These are read near the beginning and near the end of the beam pulse and the computed results together with other Linac machine parameter readings of interest, such as RF tank levels, are displayed on TV-screens at the Linac and in the PS Main Control Room. On request, a print-out of the results can also be obtained. Before executing the measurement, the computer program checks the status and levels of important parameters and in case of malfunctioning warns the operator with a diagnostic message on the TV-screen."
"Computer programs have been developed at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) to match given input beam phase-space conditions to desired output conditions in a system with up to six quadrupoles. An oscilloscope will produce beam envelopes, trace rays, or produce phasespace diagrams at given locations in a much larger simulated beam system. Provisions are available for treating off-axis and off-momentum beams. Elements include slits, drift space, quadrupoles, and bending magnets. The phasespace configuration accepted by a system with displaced elements, off-momentum beams, asymmetrically placed slits, and element apertures can be displayed on the oscilloscope. These features have been used to design experimental beams, tune the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) external proton beam, and steer the ZGS external proton beam. Excellent agreement has been found between the program predictions and actual beam parameters. Measurements of beam spot sizes at one or more locations have been used to compute beam phase-space conditions which are subsequently used in the other programs. The programs used have been entitled WIEMNY, MATCH, and QUISP."
"Recent activity in resonant extraction of the circulating proton beam at the Bevatron spurred interest in accurately measuring the radial betatron oscillation frequency. Calculations indicated that it would be practical to use the existing RF system tuned to the betatron-oscillation frequency for excitation of the desired oscillations. Measurement of the proton rotational frequency and the betatron oscillation frequency has been carried out with the aid of a small digital data processor. The system we have used allows dynamic on-line presentation of beam radius, betatron frequency, and rotational frequency to precision of approximately one part in 10 000."
"A digital computer system is being installed in the SLAC accelerator control building. Initially, the computer will recognize losses of klystrons due to malfunction, and will switch on suitable replacements. Later, it will prepare and analyze records, assist in setting up new experiments, and perform certain other control operations where rapid response is desirable."
"An IBM 1800 has been installed at CERN to assist and improve operation of the Proton Synchrotron (CPS). This paper describes the three main tasks performed in the operation of ejected beams: logging of ejection parameters, monitoring of the beam transport currents and optimization of the ejected beam position on the external target. An account is also given of the hardware installed, the main features of the software and the operational facilities offered."
"A computer-based digitally-structured, data acquisition and control system has been developed for on-line programmed control of external beam transport magnets at the Bevatron. The control algorithm achieves flexibility to accommodate all possible modes of Bevatron operation by separating the operating cycle of the accelerator into several zones. This method allows independent processing of Bevatron field within each zone, and the introduction of zone-related time-variable functions in each of the magnet currents. Evolution of the hardware is discussed and use of small computers is considered for each well-defined project, over a time-shared single large computer. The technique utilized to provide time-sharing of peripheral hardware between small computers is described. Pertinent details of methods used to reject noise in transmission of both analog and digital data are examined. Communication between digital systems and the human operator is discussed in terms of minimizing the number of operator responses required to establish a series of functions to be performed by the system."
"The isochronous cyclotron at the University of Maryland has been designed to allow computer control of all machine operations in a manner which permits unique operational flexibility. Digital control lines, 16 bits wide, run from various devices in the laboratory to a central multiplexer unit. From there, they are routed to either the operator's console or to a computer data bus. The data bus is attached to a small control computer which will be interfaced to an on-line IBM 360/44, and it will be capable of reading and setting machine controls as well as communicating with the machine operator. The software of the control computer will consist of a highly simplified time sharing system which will coordinate the execution of several independent software modules called 'tasks'. Each task will pertain to a particular control function, and the operating system will 'time share' among several tasks, allowing them to run concurrently. It is intended that this system will greatly simplify normal operations, allowing the operator greater freedom from menial chores."
"As the digital computer undergoes increasing utilization as an on-line evaluation and feedback control device for an accelerator, it becomes necessary to provide it with a multiprogramming executive software system. The system should be capable of accommodating several on-line control functions simultaneously so that these functions can be developed independently. The system should also provide for general purpose off-line utilization, such as new program development, to proceed simultaneously with and unimpeded by the continuous operation of the accelerator. OMNIBUS, the multiprogramming executive system now in use with the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) control computer, incorporates these features and several others not found in commercially available multiprogramming systems. OMNIBUS obtains data for the various control programs from locations and at specific times requested by the programs and also provides the control link; either by modifying the program stored in the timing system of the synchrotron, or by direct transmission of timing pulses or digitalinformation to the accelerator. The system provides for operator modification of the various control programs and communications with them without interrupting their on-line control or monitoring functions."
"This paper describes briefly an operating system suitable for use in a computer installation designed primarily for accelerator applications. Due attention is given to the opportunity to share processor time between Input/Output and the applications programs. Internally, the standard processing jobs are given over to a System Interpreter through requests for its action from applications programs. A disk data file shared between to processors provides a multiprocessing capability."
"The present trend towards automation of information-processing in particle accelerators dictates the need for a thorough evaluation of the method used in collection and dissemination of this information. A compact, remote terminal for use in automatic data acquisition and control of particle accelerators will be described. The terminal may be controlled by either special-purpose digital logic or by a central control computer. Interfacing to the various accelerator equipment is provided through analog and on-off control and monitoring modules. The detailed design of the logical portion of the remote terminal, in regard to data format, instruction, and command decoding, will be discussed. The method of selection of the appropriate module interface for completion of the desired function will also be treated. In addition, the equipment-interfacing design criteria resulting from actual implementation on accelerator devices will be discussed."
"The LAMPF control system specifies transmission of both data and timing signals between the control room and the local control points throughout the machine for data collection and equipment control information. A balanced system is used to reduce noise pickup. The transmitter receives a timing pulse train and the digital data in a \"non return to zero\" (NRZ) format. The two signals are combined to form a split phase code and transformer coupled to the transmission line. The receiver uses a minimum energy content circuit (integrator) preceding the decoder to reduce noise sensitivity. The number of timing pulses in the incoming pulse train is known as is the time duration of the transmission. This information is used to further reduce the probability of error."
"As the list of digitized data signals required by accelerator users and operators grows, it becomes more economical to use serial-input/ multiple-output multiplex receivers at the user/ operator control station than it is to increase the number of coaxial cables used to supply parallel data. Increasingly, on-line computers are used to operate and monitor particle accelerators and since the digitized beam data is most naturally generated sequentially, a multiplexing system becomes doubly desirable. The Central Computer Control Group of the Argonne National Laboratory Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) has designed and constructed a system using a multiplex receiver called CUPID, an acronym for Computed Pulse Information Decoder. Using two lines of serial input, CUPID generates one master scalar reset pulse and input signals for up to 31 scalars."
"A novel automated magnet switching system has been devised whereby power for beam-transport magnets of multiple-beam arrays can be supplied by common power supplies, thereby reducing the power-supply cost to that of a single beam line. The heart of the system is compact and inexpensive computer-or punched-card-operated reversing and selector switches that can switch kiloamperes. The complete system and the switches are described in detail."
"Semiconductor luminescence is being used to control a pulsed ion source operating at a high potential isolated from ground. Various methods of photon-coupling may be used such as optical focusing with lenses or mirrors or by guiding the light beam through an optical fiber bundle. The latter method is presently being used in a system designed in collaboration with Dr. C. D. Curtis of NAL. The isolation distance for this ion source test bench will stand off 150 kV. Operation of the source at this distance has been satisfactory. Preliminary tests indicate that the isolation distance may be increased to a distance capable of standing off as much as a megavolt. Among the advantages of a system such as described in this paper are simplicity of electronic circuitry, lack of complicated optical focusing, many channels for information or control may be placed in a small space, and the optical bundles need not be placed in a straight line."
"A discussion of a digital date transmission system has been presented. Many signals from the ion source in the high voltage head will be digitized and transmitted via a light link to the control point. However, wide band signals are difficult to digitize, transmit and reproduce; therefore, a linear light link has been developed. The transmitter and receiver were aligned in a laboratory environment. A triangular waveform was used to test linearity. A fast rising pulse was transmitted 40 feet. The system is described and results of experiments with the system reported."
"A non-destructive beam scanner was installed in the CPS ring early in 1968. Deriving a signal from the electrons liberated by the proton beam from the residual gas in the vacuum chamber and using a crossed electric and magnetic fields system of electron collection, the scanner gives the projected proton density distributions in the horizontal and vertical planes. Spatial resolution is better than 1 mm. An important feature is the use of a single collector which receives electrons from a slice of the beam close to the zero equipotential surface. The electric equipotential surfaces are arranged to be parallel to the beam and scanning is achieved by displacing these equipotentials laterally in the region of the beam. In particular, the zero equipotential, which always passes through the detector, is scanned right through the beam. Trials at scanning times down to 1 μS and normal CPS vacuum have yielded some interesting results. A double beam has been seen under certain conditions on the 'flat top' at 19 GeV/c, and other applications have been the study of beam dimensions during the first few ms after injection as well as debunching and slow ejection studies."
"Equipment is described with which the radial beam size and changes in orbit radius can be measured in a non-destructive way using visible synchrotron radiation. Some results are shown and compared with theoretical estimates."
"A stable, remotely operated low scattering (θ = 0.246 mrad) secondary emission monitor (SEM) which was developed at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) is described. Experimental results for secondary yield vs. energy of incident protons of 3.6 GeV/c to 12.33 GeV/c indicate that the yield increase is about 0.03%/GeV/c/A1 surface. Theoretical yield increase in the same energy range is about 0.02%/GeV/c/A1 surface. The overall yield/proton/A1 surface as observed at ANL increases from 2.7%/A1 surface at 3.6 GeV/c to 2.96%/A1 surface at 12.33 GeV/c."
"The 30-A, 50-ps electron pulse generated by the EG&G/AEC linear accelerator permits the measurement of scintillator response functions and the study of other subnanosecond phenomena. To take advantage of this capability, a system for fast pulse monitoring has been developed. Faraday cups and nonintercepting monitors have been designed to measure the electron beam current, and are used in conjunction with a unique data-acquisition system for fast pulse measurements. This system uses the fastest available sampling oscilloscopes, modified for remote operation of the sampling elements, thus eliminating the signal distortion of the coaxial cable between the experimental measurement point and the data-recording area. The digitized output of the sampling oscilloscope is stored in a magnetic memory and repeatedly averaged to increase the signal-to-noise ratio, allowing the measurement of signals that are approximately 100 ps in duration and a few millivolts in amplitude. The digital information, recorded on either magnetic or paper tape, is compatible with computerized data-reduction techniques. This data-acquisition system may be used on any recurring fast pulse and offers a sensitivity-bandwidth improvement of about 105 over the best traveling-wave oscilloscopes."
"Electron beams, accelerated by cathode ray guns, were used to calibrate Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) beam induction electrodes, without dependence upon the accuracy of RF instruments. Apparatus and technique are described and discussed."
"The operation of an accelerator requires that signals from various points about the machine be available for viewing in the control room. For the linear accelerator in the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility (IAMPF), the cable-runs over which these signals must travel are up to 3000 ft in length. Consequently, a transmission system had to be developed which had a 10% to 90% rise time of 80 ns, an overshoot of ≤ 0.5 dB, and a droop of < 0.5% for a 1-ms pulse. The necessary-pre-emphasis filter for each cable run was designed by a computer program. This paper describes the system configuration, which provides for computer-controlled switching of 320 of the 660 signals and then outlines the computational procedure used in the filter design."
"The Omnitron1 (Fig. 1) is a synchrotron (120 ft. diam) accelerator with a concentric storage ring (130 ft. diam) that will deliver beams of light and/or heavy ions at different energies and currents. Storage of heavy ions in a high-charge state for 25 msec requires that the vacuum be specified more carefully than is common in everyday speech. (Reference to \"air\" and \"pressure\" serve well enough, if not taken too literally.) Thus in place of a pressure specificatio a conservatively crude figure of merit, 1014 ≤ NΣnIZ217 turns around the acceluator, nI = the concentration of atoms of the ith atomic number ZI. Cryopumping is done by cold fingers inserted in each gap between magnets on both the synchrotron and storage rings (190 pumping stations total - see Fig. 1). Each finger, consisting of an 80°K jacket around a 4°K core, is cooled at one end by metallic attachment to nitrogen and helium distribution rings. Pump-down tests of one full size pumping station (Figs 2 & 3) comprising an alumina beam tube brazed to stainless steel are reported using \"heat pipes\" (thermal siphons)3 and metallic heat conductors in the cold finger design. Superior pumping performance is achieved, i.e., pump down requires 7 hrs to the Omnitron figure of merit. A garden variety oil sealed mechanicel pump2 and an oil (convoil 20) diffusion pump provided with fail safe LN trap-valves2 are used."
"An all metal, titanium alloy inner vacuum chamber has been built for the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). This chamber has high radiation resistance, high mechanical strength, and provides mountings for pole face windings. The upper and lower surfaces of the chamber consist of 0.012\" titanium skins which span the 32\" aperture along the 54' length of the octant. These skins are reinforced with radial T-shaped ribs 3/8\" high to withstand the design loading of 30 torr. The 20 miles of titanium ribs are diffusion bonded to the skins to provide high strength joints without welding. Eddy-current problems are minimized by using an alloy of high electrical resistivity. Pole face windings mounted in holes in the ribs will be used to correct the effects of the residual eddy currents. Many of the new techniques that were developed for aerospace applications were used to produce and test this chamber. These techniques and the results of the tests will be discussed."
"Corrugated metal bellows of several meters length are a satisfactory and very inexpensive vacuum chamber for new or existing fast-cycling synchrotrons."
"Equations are derived for the bending moments and stresses at all points and for deflections at the major and minor axes in a uniform-wall tubular chamber of elliptical cross section subjected to uniform pressure loading. Graphs are included to facilitate computations."
"An operational fail-safe line would consist of the following elements, listed in order of appearance as one proceeds from the beam exit foil window toward the accelerator: (1) pressure-rise detector; (2) acoustic-delay section; (3) fastclosing valve; and (4) straight-through liquid nitrogen trap, isolated by bakeable vacuum valves. Because of the thermal velocity distribution in the entering gas, it is practically impossible to stop all of it by the fast valve. The trap, however, will be effective in catching contaminants if the flow through the trap is well within the molecular flow regime at all times. The purpose of these tests is to ensure that this condition can be realized in a practical way."
"A 75 MeV strong focusing A.G. proton synchrotron has been proposed as part of a new injector system into PPA. Such a booster would increase the 3 GeV intensity of PPA to 1012 protons per pulse or 2×1013 protons per second. Following is a design description of this proposed 3 MeV to 75 MeV booster synchrotron."
"The main features of this 800 MeV injector are described. The design philosophy is discussed."
"Many types of injection systems have been studied extensively both at CERN and LRL. These studies were revived and extended at NAL during the latter half of 1967. Many people drawn from almost all accelerator laboratories both in the USA and in Europe contributed to the conceptual design. Although the whole question of booster type was reexamined from the beginning, the conclusions reached by this study group were in complete agreement with those reached in the LRL and CERN studies. Namely, that within the framework of existing technology, the most desirable type of injector is a fast-cycling synchrotron having a radius of a fraction of that of the main ring."
"In 1967 the Karlsruhe study group has proposed a proton-synchrotron of 40 GeV and 1012 p/s in the extracted beam. The design has been reconsidered both withl respect to utilization and lay-out of the machine. The choice is now 60 GeV and 1013 p/pulse with a separated function lattice. For the first period of operation the machine will be used for counter physics only. The design is therefore mainly determined by the requirements of slow extraction and minimum overall cost. Parameters of the improved machine are given."
"The design of a 600 MeV racetrack microtron proposed for the University of Illinois consists of a 30 MeV superconducting linac operating at 1.3 GHz between two uniform field bending magnets about 6.4 meters apart. There will be 19 parallel return paths separated by 14.7 cm. Vertical focusing is provided on each return orbit by a quadrupole pair close to each magnet. For quadrupoles 20 cm long and separated by 10 cm, the gradients required to advance the vertical oscillation phase by 90° per revolution increase monotonically from 150 to 350 gauss per centimeter. Only very weak horizontal focusing powers are needed to keep the return beams within 2 mm of linac axis. The linac itself provides some focusing but two weak quadrupole singlets on the linac axis, one near each magnet, provide additional focusing. Electron trajectories for all traversals through the linac and the magnets have been calculated in detail, by a step by step procedure where required, and are presented here. These results confirm earlier, less complete, calculations indicating that the microtron design parameters are not critical and that an output energy resolution of one part in 104 is easily obtainable."
"Previous calculations on superconducting FFAG accelerators have been refined and extended so that detailed Nb3-Sn coil configurations can be described. These are given for a 1.3 GeV model accelerator. Relative cost estimates for some critical components for a 3000 GeV FFAG and a pulsed accelerator are given."
"This report describes some recent experiments performed with a prototype of the injector section eventually to be used in conjunction with the superconducting linear accelerator at Stanford University."
"Assuming that investigations now underway will result in superconducting accelerator structures capable of withstanding gradients of 33 MeV/m, a feasibility study of a two-mile 100 GeV superconducting electron linac with 6% duty cycle has been made at frequencies of 1428 and 2856 MHz. Tentative machine parameters and the preliminary design of components and systems have been examined. These studies are based upon a traveling-wave accelerator structure with RF feedback in each 20-ft section."
"A materials research program is described. The program objectives are to evaluate materials and develop processing and fabrication techniques which it will be economically feasible to use in the construction of a high-gradient (10 MeV/ft) two-mile linear accelerator. RF properties are evaluated by cavity Q measurements at selected frequencies in the range 3 to 11 GHz. Techniques for reducing field emission are being sought. At present, this phenomenon is being studied by making dc measurements at room temperature. RF superconducting properties are known to be very sensitive functions of material purity and crystal structure. For this reason, various methods of deposition, surface purification and heat treatment are being tried. Most work is being done with lead and niobium, but technetium plating is being actively investigated."
"This paper describes the investigation of superconducting Nb cavities at S-band frequencies. The TE011 and TM011 cavities were machined by Varian Associates from solid billets of electron-beam-melted niobium and chemically polished to remove all work-damaged material. At low power levels, the TE011 cavity had a measured Qo(4.2°K) 324 × 106 and a residual Qres ≈ 6.97 × 109, whereas the TM011 cavity had a Qo(4.2°K) ≈ 89 × 106 and a residual Qres ≃ 425 × 106 . These results correspond to a surface resistance of R(4.2°K)/f2 = 0.29 μΩ/GHz2. High level measurements were limited at a critical RF field Hacc = 15.5 G in the TM011 mode and Hacc = 290 G in the TE011 mode."
"An experiment has been devised to measure directly the beam loading in electron linear accelerators operating with very short beam pulses. A well momentum analyzed and phase bunched electron beam is sent through either an unexcited waveguide or a vacuum pipe. Electron energy loss due to beam loading in the waveguide is detected by measuring the resulting energy shift of elastically scattered electrons with the NBS electron scattering spectrometer. Energy shifts of a few parts in 105 can be measured at 60 MeV. Measurements made to date at 61 MeV and for beam pulse lengths of 5, 10, and 20 nanoseconds appear to confirm the existence of enhanced beam loading relative to the usual non-dispersive linac theory. An attempt is made to compare the measurements to theoretical estimates of this enhancement."
"An important aspect of the design of high-current devices is the beam loading of the accelerating structure. The phenomenon is sensitive to the charge distribution of the beam and to the geometry of the structure. Calculations for realistic geometry are difficult; to gain insight, a number of authors have studied the simplified problem of beam interaction with a closed, right cylindrical cavity. A formal solution, for arbitrary charge distribution, has been give as a (double) sum over the modes of the cavity. It has been emphasized by all previous workers that the simplified problem approximates reality only for those modes having wavelengths large compared to the holes in an actual structure. We have developed a computational program aimed at evaluating the energy transfer to the cavity when the geometry of the beam is characterized by inner and outer radii as well as an axial length. Sums over selected sets of (or all) modes are available. Parametric studies are presented of the total cavity excitation by a charged ring."
"A review of methods for static-field compression of an electron ring is shown to suggest advantages for a method in which there is no axial acceleration or deceleration of the ring. In the method proposed here the static magnetic field itself is of such a character that the electrons are neither focused nor defocused in the axial direction. The integrity and movement of the ring through the compressor is controlled by a small traveling magnetic well. The feasibility of creating such a traveling well is discussed, and an example is presented of a current distribution capable of producing the static magnetic field of the compressor."
"The possibility of forming an electron ring by axial injection of a 25-MeV beam into a solenoidal, static magnetic field was investigated. Single-particle dynamics calculations were carried out with a computer program called HELIX. The effects of finite emittance and energy spread, which result in axial expansion of the ring in the compression phase, were studied for several coil configurations. Methods of stabilizing the electron ring are discussed and estimates of self-focusing conditions by ion loading (Bennett pinch) are presented."
"The mechanical and vacuum features of the Compressor II apparatus used in the Fall 1968 Electron Ring Accelerator (ERA) experiment are described. Included are the injection beam transport system, the coils and their support structure, the ceramic vacuum chamber and its pumping system, the gas injection system, and diagnostic probes. The coil arrangement for the upcoming Compressor III experimental apparatus is briefly presented."
"Two beam choppers were constructed which produce an approximately square, 20-ns pulse of 3+-MeV electrons out of the best portion of the 300-ns Astron beam or an 8-μs microwave electron linac beam for injection into the electronring accelerator (ERA) compressor. The choppers are impedance-matched traveling-wave devices which deflect the beam with equal strength electric and magnetic forces, and are powered with either three-electrode spark gaps or thyratrons and a 20-ns pulse line. The electron beam is biased out of the beam-transport system with a dc magnetic field, and switched into it with the chopper."
"Compton scattering of ruby laser light from a high energy electron beam at SLAC has been employed to produce a highly polarized, partially monochromatic photon beam of energy up to 7 GeV."
"A review of the current status of electron and positron storage rings is presented. The experimental results on beam instabilities, their consequences on the design of a high current sto rage ring and the technological problems involved are discussed."
"Superconductivity has advanced considerably since the discovery of high-field, type-II superconductors in 1961. During the past two years, superconductivity has at last become a tool of high-energy physics. One may now consider the construction of a superconducting proton synchrotron. Several laboratories in the United States and Europe are studying the feasibility of superconducting synchrotrons. A realistic look at such a synchrotron requires a study of the machine components and their interaction, and a study of the fundamental properties of such a machine. Economics will be the principal reason for ultimately building such a machine. Since the magnet system is the primary difference between superconducting and conventional machines, it will be emphasized in the report. There will be a short discussion of magnet coil configurations, superconducting materials, and the use of iron as a magnetic shield and return path. The magnet system consists of a power supply, cryostat, and a refrigeration system. All components are discussed in some detail. The use of superconducting synchrotron magnets permits one to consider a number of alternative solutions to RF, vacuum, and injection and extraction problems. Changes in the enclosure and other conventional facilities for a superconducting machine are discussed. A rough cost estimate of superconducting synchrotrons is presented. The effect of field, beam intensity, and repetition rate on cost is discussed. In conclusion, this report shows that a superconducting synchrotron is both feasible and economical."
"Some basic principles underlying the design of structures suitable for superconducting electron linacs and RF separators are discussed. It is shown that the shunt impedance can be written as the product of two factors, one related to the shape of the individual cavities in the structure, and the other to the field flatness. Typical standing-wave structures are discussed, with emphasis on the ratio of peak-to-average field. The problem of field flatness is analysed using a coupled chain of resonant circuits. Results are given for the variation in field flatness with loss and detuning for the π/2 and π modes. Travelling wave resonators are also of interest, since they give the highest gradient for a given peak field. It is shown that such a resonator must be matched with great precision, or substantial power will flow in the reverse direction. Other factors which enter into the design of superconducting structures, such as coupling, thermal and mechanical stability, and beam break-up, are briefly considered."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Consistent application of mismatch between source and load is shown to lead to the design of feedback amplifiers, whose characteristics closely approach those of idealized \"black boxes\" exhibiting zero or infinite input and output impedance levels. The resulting configurations are shown to employ enhancing combinations between four kinds of basic amplifiers and series or shunt feedback applied to their input and output, respectively. Depending upon the signal parameter employed, the input and output terminals of the \"black boxes\" will operate in the voltage or in the current mode, each emerging in its own rights as the preferable technique if employed under proper conditions. Enhancing combinations result in greater flexibility of usable gain values and functions, and in reduced noise contribution to the preceding stage. Further extension of mismatch to active circuit design makes it possible to employ a greatly simplified transistor model, and restricts the dominant poles to those which are unavoidably introduced by the active elements. The resulting \"standard\" circuits are readily reproducible by conventional manufacturing methods, and further improvement of their performance is predicted through the application of microcircuit techniques. The design of a high resolution spectrometer is described, which employs enhancing combinations of such standard circuits. The choice of the most suitable circuit for each stage depends on the preferred signal parameter, noise considerations, and gain requirements."
"The characteristics of four (4) lithium drifted silicon surface barrier detectors have been studied. Detector noise and leakage current were measured at the beginning and end of a sixteen (16) mounth interval. The thickness of the intrinsic region, at the beginning and end of a fourteen (14) month interval, was determined by use of proton beams from the University of Southern California Linac and the University of Colorado cyclotron. Detector noise measurements were made using both a standard pulser technique and the photopeak from Ba133 . The noise and leakage were measured at -54°C, +20°C aud +60°C. The detector leakage was measured as a function of bias at +20°C. The detector thickness measurements were also performed at +20°C"
"A review of the physical fundamentals and approximate parameters for controlled energy release by thermnonuclear fusion is presented. Assuming present research will successfully develop a fusion reactor, a comparison is made between different possible fusion power cycles. An approximate electrical power cost breakdown from the D-T and He3-D systems (including the needed fuel breeding cycles) is calculated."
"A method for developing a graph of radiation intensity vs. time for a pulse of X-ray or gamma radiation is presented. The method has been used for determining radiation intensities from pulses of nanoseconds duration with intensities in the 1010 to 1011 roentgens/sec range. It is applicable to pulses of different durations and intensities."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The successive approximation technique is faster than most other methods of analogue-to-digital conversion. The main drawback is that it normally uses a multiplicity of high precision components. This paper describes a method in which the signal is recycled through the same conversion stage by using sample and hold circuits."
"Several figures of merit for characterizing an analog-to-digital converter are considered. It is shown that the sliding scale method of improving through averaging the performance of a converter can be made more effective by introducing variable statistical weights in the averaging procedure. It is found that a parabolic weighting function is the optimum for the differential linearity, if the channel boundaries are independently random distributed with equal variance. Moreover it is shown, through a computer simulation, that this weighting function is more convenient than a rectangular one to improve also a local differential linearity, while it is equivalent as far as correction of channel centroid errors is concerned. A triangular weighing function is found to be slightly worse than the parabolic one as far as overall differential linearity is concerned but somewhat better from the point of view of local behaviour."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide an insight into low frequency divergent noises with spectral density |f|α, where α` ≤ -1, and into their effect on physical measurements, with special reference to 1/|f| noise. This class of noise is widespread in nature, and it presents unique limitations to the measurement accuracy. In an attempt to present a picture of this class of noise with regard to the measurements of observable physical quantities, the questions about generation of noise, its divergence, correlation properties and measurements of variance are discussed. A statistical model for generation of low frequency divergent noises is used to consider the divergence problem in both the frequency and time domain. It is shown that 1/|f| noise is \"weakly divergent,\" and that power limitation presents no reason to impose a low frequency limit within time intervals observable in nature. Correlation properties are discussed in terms of the time-dependent correlation function, using an ideal impulse response which generates low frequency noise from white noise. Two general models for generation of 1/|f| noise are summarized and discussed. Generation of 1/|f| noise from white noise over a limited frequency range by distributed and lumped-parameter filters is described. It is shown that the variance (i.e. mean square noise) is determined by the frequency limits of the observation method."
"In many nuclear physics, biology and engineering experiments it is important to measure the probability distribution function of random processes. In this paper a survey and comparison of different measuring techniques are given. The following systems and their basic principles of operations are described: Single channel and multidiscriminator analyzers without memory. Systems with fast digital memories and computer oriented systems. Mean rate analyzer. Multiparameter analyzers. Analog memory analyzers with capacitors and with storage tubes. Associative megachannel analyzers. Most active zone encoder. Pseudo-random transformation mode megachannel analyzer. Window preselection. Event recording analyzers. Spectrum stabilization. Trends in probability distribution measurements."
"The full potential of high-resolution gamma-ray spectrometers has been severely hampered by degradation in the quality of the pulse-height spectrum at high input data rates. Over the past year or two considerable effort has been expended in the examination of this problem. This paper will briefly review the nature of these instrumental difficulties, define realistic experimental requirements, and illustrate state-of-the-art solutions to these problems. A DC-coupled system which has been developed in our laboratory for high-rate applications will be described and performance presented."
"A nuclear pulse spectrometer should have both low noise and minimal sensitivity to slow disturbing signals, e.g. base-line fluctuations due to long CR-couplings. A bipolar filter weight-function (or step response) with area balance is advantageous for the latter, but generally involves increased noise and/or resolving time. This paper derives the optimum area-balanced waveform giving least noise for a defined overall width. Optimum waveforms are illustrated and the noise/signal performance is compared with that of the finite-width unipolar cusp and also with several practical bipolar systems in common use."
"The digits resulting from counting random events can be encoded in ways which reduce the communication bandwidth required to transmit them to a remote point. A number of ways of doing this have already been reviewed; two further methods are now presented which appear to have significant advantages."
"This paper is a free syntesis of a discussion held at Ispra on May 9, 1969 with the purpose to stimulate the people to look forward in order to catch, if possible, what the future of nuclear electronics will be. The present situation of the technique is analyzed, some criticism is made and some conclusion with possible prediction on the evolution are exposed."
"The number of information bits per unit time, or data rate, which can be telemetered back to earth from a scientific satellite is limited by restrictions on weight, volume and power. Thus, each experimenter (generally one of many) is allotted a very limited data rate capability. In nuclear experiments, where a wide variety of events may occur per unit time, use of this rate capability may be optimized by selection of events on a priority basis. Described here is an event priority instrumentation system developed for use in scientific satellites. The system allows for the selection of the highest priority event occurring during a telemetry sequence. Also, provision is made for periodically changing the order of priority. All circuitry was designed and developed to minimize weight, volume and power drain and to maintain stable characteristics while unattended for periods as long as one year. The operating temperature range is -20°C to 60°C."
"Silicon solar cells of the n/p 5 to 10 Ω -cm type have been irradiated with neutron fluences from 5.2 x 109 to 1.5 x 1013 n/cm2 using a TRIGA reactor. Current-voltage characteristics, spectral response, and diffusion length measurements have been made and the results interrelated. Agreement with theory is good. Diffusion length depends upon injection level in a manner similar to that for proton irradiation."
"This paper deals with a brief report of the irradiation of M.O.S.T. at C.E.R.N., using 600 MeV protons. The behavior of two fundamental parameters : the treshold voltage and the mobility of the holes in the channel were studied using p-channel transistors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The publication offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers."
"This is the text of a tutorial talk on the use of electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) as a \"microscopic\" tool in the study of radiation-produced defects in semiconductors. The basic concepts of EPR and its general applicability to point defects in semiconductors are outlined. As an illustrative example, the study of a p-type (aluminum doped) silicon sample is described from 20.4°K irradiation with 1.5 MeV electrons through various annealing stages. By analysis of the EPR spectra, it is shown that the major defects can be identified and the annealing mechanisms determined."
"Electron irradiation experiments on Si and Ge have indicated the creation of highly mobile interstitial atoms that in turn displace substitutional chemical impurity atoms (S) from the lattice; hence, the primary products of irradiation may be lattice vacancies (V) and interstitial chemical impurities (I). Subsequent annealing may then involve some type of interaction between (V) and (I). The relative amount of radiation damage, or ratio of (I) to the remaining substitutional chemical impurity atom concentration (SR), is also expected to be of importance since there may be competition during annealing between (I) and (SR) for the mobile (V). Samples of P, As, Sb, Sb-Ag, and Sb-Au doped n-type Ge of different initial carrier concentrations were irradiated at ~ 295°K with ~ 1.7 Mev electrons to different ratios of (I) to (SR), and electrical property measurements were made at 77°K immediately after irradiation. The results indicate (1) an increase in the apparent rate of removal of conduction electrons for material of higher initial carrier concentration, (2) a difference in the apparent rate of removal for different dopants, (3) a small dependence of the apparent removal rate on the total amount of disorder introduced, and (4) the amount of annealing was not a sensitive function of the ratio of (I) to (SR) for P or Sb-doped material, but was for As-doped material."
"Two defects introduced in boron- and aluminum-doped silicon by 1.5-MeV electron irradiation have been studied by means of infrared photoconductivity. The defects have been identified as being dopant atoms in interstital positions. Stress-induced dichroism measurements have allowed the determination of the defects' symmetry which is C3v."
"Measurements of minority carrier lifetime damage constant and divacancy growth following neutron irradiation at 76°K have been used to characterize further the annealing of neutron damage in silicon below 300°K. It has been shown that electron injection into p-type silicon at 76°K causes recovery of the neutron induced defect clusters with the simultaneous appearance of divacancies. Comparison of isochronal annealing curves of damage constant taken with and without prior injection at 76°K illustrates the nature of cluster annealing below 300°K. The thermal annealing results are shown to agree with previous annealing measurements of the carrier removal rate."
"Ion implantation of dopant impurities into semiconductors offers numerous potential advantages. However, because of the limited knowledge presently available on the annealing of lattice damage, the implantation profile and the electrical characteristics of implanted layers, a considerable amount of investigation is required before this doping technique can be put to practical use. Experimentally obtained implantation profiles and electrical conductivity characteristics of high energy (above 1 Mev) dopant ion implants into silicon are presented. Some preliminary results of ion implantation on silicon dioxide and on the resulting devices are also included."
"In the present work a review of the acheivements of the Gossick and Crawford model of disordered regions in semiconductors is given, together with a transmission electron microscope investigation of the structural characteristics of the disordered regions themselves. Both diffraction contrast and phase contrast electron microscope images have been used to examine disordered regions observed in Ge irradiated with fast neutrons or 100 keV oxygen ions. Experimental evidence is presented which clearly demonstrates that the disordered regions have an amorphous rather than a defect rich crystalline structure. Furthermore, each disordered region is observed to be surrounded by a non-uniform strain field extending out to ~65Å from the disordered region center."
"The anamolous behavior of neutron-induced defect clusters in the high field space-charge region of silicon p-n junctions is investigated. The space-charge region recombination current variation with neutron fluence and the junction electric field strength present during irradiation is examined and an electric field strength dependence for the defect clusters is found to exist. The space-charge region rate of volume damage introduction is observed to be a function of both neutron fluence and the junction electric field strength present during irradiation. An empirical expresion for the dependence of the rate of volume damage introduction on fluence and junction field strength present during irradiation is developed. Possible mechanisms for the observed field dependence are discussed."
"Measurements are reported which provide extensive data on the resistivity, temperature, and injection level dependences of the minority carrier lifetime in neutron irradiated p- and n-type silicon. The lifetime damage constants are observed to be quite dependent on the injected minority carrier density, in both conductivity types, over the temperature range from 76°K to 300°K. The low injection level damage constants have been measured and found to be dependent on material resistivity in p-type silicon, but only slightly dependent on resistivity in n-type silicon. The results of the experimental studies are compared to the predictions of two alternate models for recombination at defect clusters. For defect clusters of approximately 250 A radius, as expected from range calculations, these comparisons indicate that each contains a relatively small number of deep defects (30 - 40). The defects are individually characterized by a deep donor level near Ev + 0.35 eV and a deep acceptor level near Ec - 0.50 eV. Since these levels correspond approximately to the known energy levels of the silicon divacancy, it is suggested that the divacancy may be the active recombination center within the defect clusters."
"Unusual low temperature behavior has been observed in NPN silicon transistors when gallium is employed as the base dopant. The current gain exhibits a pronounced \"hump\" near 76°K in these devices, which enables them to be studied and utilized at this low temperature. Near the hump temperature, the tolerance of the gallium doped devices to fast neutrons is observed to be approximately a factor of five greater than at room temperature. The peak in transistor gain at low temperature has been explained in terms of the change in emitter injection efficiency with temperature as a result of the different rates of carrier freeze-out in the base and emitter regions. In the model proposed, the increased radiation tolerance results from a decrease in the recombination in the emitter space charge region at low temperatures."
"Alloyed and symmetrical n+υn+ devices made of nominally 75k Ωcm υ-type Si are analyzed before and after irradiation with 14MeV neutrons at room temperature and doses of 1.2×1011, 5.5×1011 and 4.0×1012n/cm2. Immediately after the application of a large turn-on voltage step at t ≈ O, the flow of electrons through these devices is by pure, trap free, space-charge-limited current (sclc). From an analysis of this sclc, it is established that the drift velocity-field relationship of electrons in Si is affected by the radiation only at low temperatures in the low field range. For t>0, the current after irradiation decays below its initial trap free sclc value, thus revealing the presence of traps. Two categories are identified: fast traps with energy levels at about ΔEtf ≈ 0.13eV below the conduction band and slow traps with energy levels at roughly ΔEts≈005eV. Cross sections are also obtained. Introduction rates are about equal for both (llcm-l for fast traps and 8cm-1 for slow traps). These results demonstrate the sensitivity of sclc as a tool to detect traps and changes in the drift velocityfield relationship caused by radiation. Some implications of these results are discussed and additional experiments are suggested."
"The fast neutron irradiation induced degradation of junction field effect transistors has been studied in detail. A comparison of p-channel to n-channel devices has confirmed reported differences in hole and electron removal rates. The predicted increase of hardness with increasing channel dopant concentration is experimentally demonstrated, although channel dopant grading makes very heavily doped units difficult to attain in practice. Also, a device modification which allows attainment of breakdown voltages higher than those characteristic of the channel doping level is presented and experimentally verified. This modification made possible the construction of devices with breakdown voltages greater than fifty volts, which degraded by only 25% in transconductance at fluences of approximately l-3×1015 neutrons/cm2 (E > 10 kev, Triga). Thus, the technique offers promise in the construction of very radiation resistant devices with wide operating voltage ranges."
"Experimentally determined permanent and transient effects of radiation on the electrical characteristics of junction field effect transistors (JFET's) are presented for JFET's exposed to energetic neutron doses up to 1016 neutrons/cm2 (E > 10 Kev) and ionizing radiation up to 8×109 rad/sec. Results of extensive transient radiation experiments using the AFCRL Linac are presented for various combinations of channel doping, gate resistor values, gate voltages, drain voltages, gold doping and dose rates. Limited new experimental data is presented on neutron damage. Existing neutron degradation data on hardened JFET's is summarized. The JFET neutron degradation theory is summarized and refined."
"This paper discusses integrated circuit (IC) structures and associated physical mechanisms which are responsible for the phenomenon of radiation-induced latchup. Laboratory measurements on selected IC's haveverifiedthatthestructures described will support latchup. These measurements are briefly discussed. An important result of the laboratory measurements has been to establish that electrical tests can be used to identify latchup-prone structures within an IC. These measurements, together with an understanding of the biasing conditions that must exist in order to initiate the latchup path, can be used to determine the susceptibility of an IC, in normal operation, to radiation-induced latchup. A careful analysis of a given IC's topology can uncover all latchup-prone structures. Once such structures have been identified, appropriate electrical testing can be implemented during the IC production phase to determine the V-I characteristics of these paths. This procedure will supply the necessary information regarding the biasing conditions required for the initiation of the latchup paths when the IC is exposed to an ionizing radiation environment. One-hundred percent electrical testing may be required, depending upon the results of the analyses, in order to uncover the single latchup-prone individual, among several hundred IC chips, which might possess an anomalous V-I characteristic. It is concluded that four-layer (p-n-p-n) action is the primary latchup sustaining mechanism, while transistor sustaining voltage breakdown is of little concern and second breakdown is probably of minor importance for most IC's. Second breakdown must be given careful consideration, however, before a given IC can be considered to be latchup free."
"The switching of a four-layer semiconductor device in an ionizing radiation environment is calculated by solving the charge transport equations to determine the motion of the electron and hole distributions and the changes in the electric field distribution throughout a one-dimensional device as a function of time. A discussion of the characteristic device turn-on as a function of the ionizing radiation exposure and external circuit and device parameters is presented. In addition to showing the detailed calculated device behavior, the theoretical and experimental results are compared."
"Complementary-symmetry MOS (CMOS) integrated circuits were subjected to a sub-microsecond burst of high intensity ionizing radiation using 10-MeV electrons from a LINAC. The results show that, at peak doserate values of less than 8 × 108 rads (Si)/s, the transient change in output voltage of a CMOS inverter is small and can be attributed simply to the net junction photocurrent flowing at the output node. At dose rates in excess of 8 × 108 rads (Si)/s, however, a new type of response comes into play and the transient change in output voltage becomes very large, approaching the operating voltage. In some instances, this change can result in a non-destructive temporary latch-up condition. The results suggest that this condition is caused by a parasitic effect, namely the interaction of the P-well, the source-drain diffusions, and the protection diodes that constitute a four layer structure."
"Second breakdown was induced in the 2N914 transistor by electron pulses from a 10 MeV Linac. The typical time delay for the initiation of breakdown was observed as well as the reduction in time delay with increasing voltage. In addition, a transistor subject to a non-limited breakdown was observed to fail by a collector-to-emitter short. Threshold voltages for second breakdown were observed to decrease with increasing dose rate ir the BV and BV modes. At 1 or 2 × 1010 rad(Si)/sec the voltage decreased below the rated (BVCEO) voltage of the 2N914 transistor."
"Thin disk dielectric film capacitors were prepared from a series of special monodisperse polystyrenes and irradiated in a flash X-ray facility. Transient conductivity in the films was measured with time resolution ≈ 5 ns, for dose rates from 107 to 5×1010; rad/sec, and related to a kinetic model dominated by carrier trapping. Estimates for constants associated with a class of shallow traps were obtained for the assumed model. No significant molecular weight dependence of the early-time induced conductivity was found. Molecular weight-dependent departures from second order decay kinetics were noted."
"In this paper we report the results of a radiation testing program on swept-synthetic quartz resonators and materials. Thirteen resonators representing eight bars of Z-growth, swept-synthetic quartz were tested for transient frequency drifts and accumulated frequency offset. When the drift due to the temperature change induced by a radiation pulse equilibrates, a relatively permanent frequency offset which changes with dose is observed. Typical frequency changes are found to be approximately +2 pp 108 for doses of a few kilorads to about 5 × 104 rads and -1 pp 107 after 2 × 105 rads. Crystals cut from the same bar exhibit frequency shifts which differ by about 1 pp 108 for a given dose, but crystals from different bars differ by larger amounts for a given dose. Changes observed in a resonator irradiated in a mixed gamma-neutron environment to 175 kilorads and 3 × 1014 n/cm2 cannot be accounted for by ionization-induced changes alone. Positive frequency shifts, linear in neutron fluence, are observed. Electron spin resonance and transient and steady-state optical absorption measurements were performed on pieces of the parent material in an attempt to correlate the observed frequency changes with defect properties. Two radiation-induced electron spin resonance centers were observed, one of which appears to anneal at the same temperature as the frequency shift due to ionizing radiation. Predictions of frequency shifts with accuracies of approximately 1 pp 107 can be made from measurements of a piece of a bar."
"It is often difficult to radiation-test the transistors of interest in the initial phases of a program involving radiation-hardened circuit design. As a result, a convenient way is needed of estimating primary photocurrents in transistors due to gamma radiation which does not involve measuring or testing devices. A new method of predicting primary photocurrent is advanced which makes it possible to calculate Ipp from manufacturer's data sheets, making it unnecessary to have any measurements or test performed."
"Mathematical models of devices can generally be classified into one of two categories. The first model ip formulated on physical properties of the device through a series of complex equations dependent upon doping levels fabricating Processes, and geometry. The second model is formulated on the basis of an equivalent electrical circuit which simulates the observable electrical behavior. The improved mathematical model for describing the photogenerated current in a radiated p-n junction described here falls into the second category. and is intended for use in the Transient Radiation Analysis by Computer (TRAC) family of transient circuit analysis Programs."
"A brief introductory review is given of the various mechanisms which govern the interaction of organic materials with ionizing radiation. Emphasis is given to the phenomena occurring in organic polymers, their explanation and the techniques used in the study of these effects."
"This paper gives the result of an experimental investigation of the coupling of transient electromagnetic fields with two-wire uniform transmission line cable models. A long wire antenna was used as the transient radiation source in the experimental verification of the theoretical electromagnetic field coupling transfer functions for the transmission line cable model. The basic theoretical coupling concepts were applied with the aid of computer programs to the specimen transmission line in the experimental environment to obtain the analytical responses. On the basis of the comparison of the analytical responses with the experimental results, it was concluded that the field coupling transfer functions for the transmission line model are valid."
"An empirical technique for simplified computer modeling of a 709 operational amplifier integrated circuit in an ionizing radiation environment is presented. The model makes use of an RLC network and a voltage-transfer curve to model the normal electrical operation of the 709. An additional voltage generator models the radiation response. Comparisons between the radiation response predicted by the model and observed radiation response are shown."
"The design and testing of a dielectrically isolated integrated circuit Set-Reset (RS) flip flop is described. The flip flops were fabricated with bipolar transistors having a primary photocurrent sensitivity of 3-5 × 10-11 mA/rad(Si)/s. The flip flops were capable of being switched on clock command during a 400 nsec electron beam pulse with a peak dose rate of 1.6 × 1011 rad(Si)/s."
"The ionizing radiation responses of seven integrated circuit types having different circuit functions are considered. Each circuit type was manufactured using several different construction technologies. In all, five technologies have been theoretically and experimentally analyzed. A comparison illustrates the degree of improvement and the differences in resulting failure modes when more advanced technologies are used."
"The dominant sensitivity of the basic analog voltage regulator to small-signal transient radiation is identified by analysis and experiment. Various methods of circuit hardening are considered. Hardening by diode compensation is demonstrated."
"Interface-state densities and MOS transistor characteristics dependent upon such states have been studied as a function of radiation dose and type. Special MOS devices possessing doped silicon-dioxide layers as well as undoped \"control\" devices have been utilized. Infrared absorption measurements were performed on silicon-dioxide samples before and after exposure to radiation, as well as for doped and undoped samples. A model based on structural modifications of the silicon-dioxide-films is proposed for the build-up of interface-states resulting from exposure to radiation. It has been found that with the proper doping of the silicon-dioxide films, the build-up of such states can be reduced. Using such doped gate-dielectrics, planar semiconductor devices much less sensitive to radiation have been fabricated."
"Implantation of thermal oxide on silicon with 1016 N2+ cm-2 at an energy of 50 keV reduces the space charge buildup observed in the oxide when exposed subsequently to ionizing radiation. The component of radiation-induced charge buildup in the oxide attributable to the increase in fast surface states at the oxide-silicon interface is largely unaffected."
"Detailed studies of radiation damage in metaloxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistors show that the damage due to ionizing radiation is substantially different if chromium is added to the gate oxide. Devices with chromium consistently show smaller gate threshold shifts (due to positive charge storage in the gate oxide) when irradiated with zero or negative gate bias; they also show smaller increases in interface state density. The generation of interface states by radiation is also bias dependent in chromium MOS devices. Another difference between devices with conventional and chromium-doped oxides is the lower rate of thermal annealing when chromium is used. An extended anneal at 350°C is required to remove radiation damage from these devices. A considerable degree of control over ionization damage is thus obtained by chromium doping, and it appears this control can be used to improve radiation hardness of MOS transistors."
"Silicon oxynitride (SiON) films (in MIS structures) with compositions near Si2ON2 are nearly insensitive to space-charge built-up for radiation doses up to ~10 Mrads. Bias during irradiation does not lead to instability unless certain threshold field values are exceeded. These values are 2.8 × 105 V/cm for negative bias and 1.5 × 106 V/cm for positive. Above the threshold for negative bias there is negative charge injection by the metal contact. The shift of the C-V curve, ΔVfb' is linearly related to the applied bias, VA: ΔVfb= VTH - VA (VTH is the threshold voltage). The composition range of interest is characterized by refractive indices from 1.74 to 1.82. The films are good barriers to sodium drift at 160°C, but are permeable to hydrogen gas and allow the usual annealing of interface states. Films deposited on bare Si surfaces show large negative Vfb. To obtain low surface charge densities, a thin SiO2 layer (40 to 180 Å) can be interposed between the SiON and Si or the Si surface can be pretreated chemically (~15 Å SiO2). Neither treatment affects radiation hardness. In preliminary bias-temperature tests (4 hours, 300°C, ±1.5 × 106V/cm) SiON films showed non-ionic -type drifts. For either bias polarity, films with interlayers showed drifts < 2V; those with pretreated Si surfaces showed drifts ~3V for negative bias and no drifts for positive. SiON films on bare Si surfaces are less stable (drifts ~5 to 10V) due to injection from the Si electrode."
"Because of a variety of important new applications, it is desirable to determine the effects of radiation on silicon Schottky barrier diodes. In the present study, both neutron and low-energy electron irradiation were employed and a variety of Schottky diode structures were investigated. These included the p-n junction guard ring structure and a gate-controlled structure which was used to separate surface from bulk effects. The two main effects of low-energy electron irradiation are: increase of surface recombination velocity and buildup of a positive space charge in the oxide. These results are consistent with previous studies of p-n junction diodes. For Schottky diodes without gate electrodes, the breakdown voltage is decreased and some excess current is present at low forward bias after irradiation. The effects of nuclear irradiation are (in addition to the surface effects mentioned above): decrease of bulk lifetime and carrier removal, again consistent with previous studies on p-n junction devices. Recombination-generation current increases manyfold due to the decrease in lifetime after irradiation. This component of current is important for Pt Schottky diodes which have a high barrier (0.85 eV). However, for Al diodes, since the barrier is relatively low (0.69 eV) and the thermionic emission current relatively high, recombination-generation current is not important until very high neutron dosage."
"The predominant effect of radiation on a typical metal-oxidesemiconductor (MOS) transistor is a shift in the threshold or \"cut-off\" voltage of the device. Since these devices are in other respects extremely well suited to space applications, the problem of estimating and accommodating the anticipated threshold voltage shift has been examined. This paper presents guidelines which will assist the designer to predict the limits within which the values of these changes will fall. These predictions are based on extensive tests of complementary-symmetry MOS devices, as well as the more conventional MOS transistors and integrated circuits. A parallel research program has provided a better understanding of the damage effects. The first part of the paper presents the results of radiation-testing a wide variety of MOS devices that canbe used for estimating the anticipated threshold voltage shift at various dose levels. The second part of the paper presents data on the behavior of MOS devices when gate bias during irradiation is applied intermittently instead of continuously."
"During the last few years a program has been under way at Oak Ridge National Laboratory to measure the electron flux in an irradiated medium. A typical source consists of several curies of beta radioactivity uniformly dispersed in a metal, the whole approximating a homogeneous, uniformly and isotropically irradiated medium. The electron flux escaping from a cavity within the medium is measured over the energy range from about 50 keV down to 1 eV. At the higher energies the flux observed is due entirely to the beta rays from the source, whereas below 10 keV the flux rises by as many as five orders of magnitude, this rise being due to the generation of secondary, tertiary, quarternary and higher generations of electrons. The measurements are in approximate agreement with the Spencer-Fano theory of electron slowing down above ten keV, but tend to indicate that the theory underestimates the flux below this energy by as much as a factor of four. Theoretical ionization and plasmon cross sections for aluminum have been combined with our flux data to calculate the probability of occurrence of a given type of event from a beta ray from a copper-64 or gold-198 source. Calculations show that most K-ionizations (~3) are caused by the primary beta ray whereas L-shell ionizations and plasmon excitations tend to come from the secondary electrons (~300 for the former and ~20,000 for the latter)."
"In this paper, experimentally measured depth dose profiles for several materials are compared with the theoretical profiles calculated by the electron transport computer code ZEBRA. The experimental profiles were obtained using a unique technique. The materials were exposed to the pulsed electron beam from the flash x-ray at HDL and the materials' rear surface motion induced by the exposure was measured with a laser interferometer. These measured responses were then converted to velocity histories which can be related to the depth dose profiles. The depth dose profiles of nine materials with atomic numbers ranging from 13 to 79 were measured. For three of these materials, profiles were obtained for more than one electron spectrum. In general the measured and calculated profiles agree with each other well enough to demonstrate the applicability of this experimental technique to a wide range of materials and electron spectra."
"The technique of dynamic stress-birefringence has been applied in two unique ways to a study of stress waves in solids. Observations of both longitudinal and shear waves, induced in Plexiglas by a pulsed beam of high-energy electrons, have been made with a polariscope operating in the visible. Stress waves induced in silicon by an exploding wire facility were studied with the polariscope in the infrared. The theories of thermoelasticity and birefringence are reviewed briefly and solutions describing stress induced by transient energy depositions are obtained. These solutions are compared to experimental results obtained with a flash x-ray generator."
"Secondary electron emission from thin metal foils is measured for incident 30-MeV electrons as a function of foil thickness from 0.02 to 3 g/cm2. The emission is divided into high-energy and low-energy components with the magnitude of the high-energy emission ranging from 3 to 12 percent and the low-energy emission from 3 to 6 percent. This experimental data can be described satisfactorily by two theoretical models."
"This paper describes the results of a systematic study of the interaction of cable systems with ionizing radiation fields, with a view toward achieving a fundamental understanding of the effects governing radiation induced cable signals. The study led to the construction of a physical model which was used to obtain a quantitative description of the dominant processes involved in the interaction. The model is sufficiently comprehensive to permit the calculation of the current induced in the conductors of a coaxial or triaxial cable system (or, indeed, almost any other system of conductors separated by an insulating medium) for any combination of incident photon and electron spectra. A number of experiments was performed to support the calculations. The validity of the model will be demonstrated by showing that the experimental data verify the theoretical calculations."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The connection between the dynamics of an object and the algorithmic level has been modified in this paper, based on two-level control. The central modification consists in introducing feedbacks, that is, a system of regulators at the level of the formed typed of gait only. Such a modification originates from the assumption that a very narrow class of gait types needs to be taken into account when generating the gait. In the paper the gait has been formed on the basis of a fixed program having a kinematic-dynamic character. The kinematic part concerns the kinematic programnmed connections for activating the lower extremities, while the dynamic part exposes appropriate changes in the characteristic coordinates of the compensation system. Such a connection with a minimum number of coordinates extends the possibility of solving the problem of equilibrium in motion for one type of gait without any particular algorithm that would take into account the motion coordinates and form out of them a stable motion at a higher algebraic level."
"The utilization of microwave energy to produce an acute effect on the eyes of rabbits was experimentally investigated using both CW and pulsed power at 5.5 GHz. When present, lens opacities were developed within four days after exposures of sufficient intensity and duration; three minutes at the one-watt level were found to exceed cataractogenic threshold, while at the ½-watt level no acute effect was observed following a two-hour exposure."
"In this paper, the reciprocity theorem is used to determine the sensitivity of EEG leads to the location and orientation of sources in the brain. Quantitative information used in determining the sensitivity is derived from constant potential plots of a three-concentric-sphere mathematical model of the head with current applied through surface leads (the reciprocal problem), and from an electrolytic tank employing a human skull. Advantages of the reciprocal or lead field approach are outlined and the following conclusions are drawn. 1) Leads placed at the end of a diameter through the center of the brain have a range of sensitivity due to source location of only 3 to 1. 2) For the same electrode placement, sensitivity is maximum to sources oriented parallel to the line of the electrodes regardless of source location. 3) Electrodes spaced 5 cm apart are about ten times more sensitive to proximal cortical sources (by virtue of position) than to sources near the center of the brain."
"The objective of this study is to explore the physiological sources of covariation between multiple narrow-band EEG spectral amplitudes with an aim toward parsimonious modeling of the observed intercorrelations. Specifically, a factor-analytic model describing the intercorrelations among 25 spectral amplitudes, at 1-Hz increments from 1 to 25 Hz, is presented. This method is applied to the EEGs obtained from a group of five subjects controlled for age, sex, state of consciousness, and recording dipole. The subjects were studied in waking and sleeping states in order to examine how this model would represent such physiological changes."
"In some cases disease causes widespread changes in a number of physical and chemical indexes, without any one index being grossly altered. The difficulty inherent in evaluating numerous small changes may obscure the diagnosis, even though it is conclusive. We show that subtle patterns of change may be recognized using marked cards. These consist of a ``patient data card'' on which is typed a number of scales, each representing one of the measurements, and a ``statrule'' card which contains the statistics for these measurements for the diseases of concern. These cards implement procedures often used in studies of numerical diagnosis made with digital computers. The statistical basis of statrules is discussed in the first part of the paper using primarily a geometric point of view. The second part of the paper shows how to use and construct statrules."
"A capacitance displacement transducer with a linear response and constant sensitivity for a frequency range of 0-1000 Hz is described. Its application to measurement of chest wall motions was verified using static displacements from flat and curved surfaces and both human tissue and metal. The transducer has been used to obtain recordings of apex motion, heard sounds, and brachial and radial pulses. Its advantages are that it is noncontacting and linear, and that it has a wide frequency response and can easily be calibrated to obtain quantitative data of actual motion. Problems encountered in use were the mechanical positioning of the probe including respiratory motions in the measurement and the need to insulate the probe with a film of thin plastic to insure against an electrical hazard to the subject."
"The many mutually interacting phenomena which control cerebrospinal fluid dynamics and reflect them to other physiologic systems constitute a rather complex mechanism. The classical piecemeal approach for analysis is not suited to study the interactions of multiple parameter changes or the manner in which some evoked change in the cerebrospinal fluid system reflects itself on other parts of the mechanism."
"Recorded arterial blood volume pulses are often superimposed on slow rhythmic volume waves. It was noticed that in such recordings the dicrotic complex changes its shape as a function of the volume wave; on the ascending limb of the volume wave the dicrotic complex becomes more pronounced, whereas on the descending limb it becomes attenuated. In order to explain this observation a mathematical analysis of the recording was performed. The analysis suggests that the changes in the shape of the dicrotic complex can be explained by assuming a superposition of arterial wall extensions caused by volume changes due to 1) the downstroke of the volume pulse, 2) the dicrotic complex, and 3) the ascending (or descending) limb of the volume wave. Three functions simulating these three vascular events were electronically generated and superimposed. The result shows that the simulated dicrotic complex changes its shape in a similar manner as in the physiological recording, strengthening the proposed explanation. The origin of the dicrotic complex and of rhythmic waves in blood volume and blood pressure is still unclear and their interaction, therefore, is difficult to understand. The present paper offers a possible explanation for a case in which the shape of the dicrotic complex, appearing on a blood volume pulse, changes as a function of a rhythmic volume wave."
"During the past few years, a number of left ventricular assist devices for diastolic augmentation have been developed which incorporate pneumatically driven pulsating pumps. The driving systems for these devices synchronize the pump to the cardiac cycle, provide any required time delay, and generate an appropriate pneumatic waveform."
"A universal heart pacing method is proposed, making use of the atrial-synchronized and demand operation modes. The system includes an ECG-sensing network for control of the pacing action. Special logic design provides for processing the P- and QRS-waves in two parallel channels."
"This paper comprises certain theoretical considerations and the proposal of a lead system which seem to be valuable for the determination of the equivalent dipole and quadrupole of the isolated heart. The first section gives the geometrical analysis of the quadrupole field. The quadrupole is represented by a rhombus with equal sides and Taylor components are utilized throughout, in order to describe properties of the field graphically and to define necessary parameters. In the second section, a practical lead system is introduced which gives dipole and quadrupole components of the isolated heart directly, provided that octupolar and higher order terms are negligible. The modification which makes the lead system insensitive to the octupole is also given."
"The heavy noise content in many exercise electrocardiograms has hindered the development of diagnostic analysis techniques. Many of the computational methods require a reliable and minimumly variable time reference within each ECG cycle. For example, such a trigger signal is a prerequisite to average transient computing, and can also relieve a digital computer of the timeconsuming task of digital filtering in the initial pattern recognition of R-waves."
"In order to see the true nature of the fetal electrocardiogram, many varied signal enhancement techniques have been tried. Recently, through the use of coherent time averaging, the successful recovery of the low-voltage portions of the fetal ECG has been demonstrated. The averaging device which has been used has limitations with respect to the recovery of transient changes in the fetal ECG, however. This paper discusses the design of a new type of averaging device that, by giving more weight to the more recent fetal ECGs as they are included in the average, aids in the observation of these transients. A prototype of this averaging system has been built and used to process a limited sample of tape-recorded fetal ECG data. The enhanced fetal ECGs that were obtained are shown."
"Current statistical methods for treating vectorcardiographic directions are invalid because they treat the directions as points on a line or plane. It is more appropriate to consider the directions as points on a circle or sphere; the direction toward the center of gravity of such points is then a measure of the prevalent direction, and the distance from the center of the circle or sphere to the center of gravity is a measure of precision. The precision is a measure of how closely the directions cluster about the prevalent direction. The Fisher distribution is suggested as a probability model for spatial directions, and its usefulness is illustrated by 1) a test statistic for determining whether two samples of directions come from the same population, 2) the construction of a ``confidence circle'' for the spatial prevalent direction, and 3) a method for obtaining planar prevalent directions and precisions from the spatial ones."
"A simple description of myosin-actin interactions is presented. Four parameters are defined: the probability, time, and energy of a myosin reaction, and a compression factor describing other muscle properties. The dependence of muscle tension upon contraction rate, derived from this model, is shown to agree with previous experimental data of Hill."
"Wïth this issue we start a section on Abstracts of Dissertations in the field of biomedical engineering. The Editor wishes to thank all concerned for their excellent response to his request for this information. By the end of the year we will be publishing current abstracts, and if faculty supervisors continue to cooperate by sending us abstracts when students graduate, we will be able to continue what should be a valuable addition to this Transactions."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper considers the possibility of controlling an artificial upper extremity by a special-purpose computer, where the points that the extremity should reach are given in advance."
"An electronic analog system has been developed which performs the double scale calculation from the Wood oximeter and gives a single output as a log ratio and also gives a digital display of oxygen saturation, with simultaneous recording of these parameters if desired. This system, built of commercially available analog components, consists of operational amplifiers to amplify the output of the red and infrared photocells, logarithmic devices to calculate the optical density as sensed by these two photocells, a division circuit to calculate the log ratio, a scaling circuit to facilitate digital display in percent oxygen saturation, and a digital voltmeter."
"This paper reviews 14 years of experimental and clinical research work. Concise concepts of electric impulse therapy in cardiac tachyarrhythmias by application of capacitor discharges are described. Experiments carried out on dogs showed that pure undamped capacitor discharges caused more damage to myocardial function than damped ones. The degree of damage depends upon the parameters of the impulse. When identical energies are applied, a high voltage impulse causes greater functional and morphological damage than impulses at lower voltages. For electrical impulse therapy of cardiac arrhythmias, damped impulses have greater advantages. Lower threshold voltage and less energy are required. The duration of the impulse plays an important role in determining the lowest voltage on the electrodes. In the experiments described the lowest voltage was achieved for an impulse duration of 10 ms. Parameters of 4 to 10 ms appear to have practical advantage from the point of view of ventricular defibrillation. These damped impulses at values above the voltage threshold, i.e. from at least 2.5 kV upwards, do not cause ventricular fibrillation in any phase of the heart cycle. Therefore synchronized application of the capacitor discharge is not required. Experimental results were confirmed by clinical practice and presented identical findings. Finally, two examples of an unsynchronized portable defibrillator are shown. These instruments have their own battery power source, can be operated independent of electrical power lines, and are suitable for use both in emergency cases and routine treatment of all kinds of cardiac tachyarrhythmias."
"Nonlinear properties of electrodes immersed in saline were studied in the time domain and frequency domain. Three electrode materials were tested: platinum-iridium, Elgiloy, and stainless steel. For time domain measurements, current pulses of 1.0 to 2.0 ms duration and varying amplitudes were applied to the electrodes. Frequency domain measurements of polarization impedance were made with an impedance bridge, utilizing sinusoidal currents of varying amplitudes at frequencies between 0.1 and 10 kHz."
"The principle of operation of the ultrasonic flowmeter, detecting phase shifts or pulse transit times, is examined. It is shown both theoretically and experimentally that the sensitivity of the flowmeter depends on the fluid velocities averaged along the path of the ultrasound between the transducers. The instrument therefore overestimates the net fluid velocity by 33 percent in case of steady laminar flow and by approximately 7 percent in case of steady turbulent flow, provided the ultrasound traverses the entire lumen of the (cylindrical) vessel. The signal obtained in case of oscillatory flow generally is larger in amplitude than and lagging in phase behind the true flow. The errors are between 0 and 33 percent and between 0 and 7°, respectively. The effect of this on natural blood flow signals is discussed in detail. It is concluded that the flowmeter detects the waveform of aortic flows with a fidelity which should be satisfactory in most cases."
"A technique employing diagnostic ultrasound to evaluate lateral pharyngeal wall motion during connected discourse is described. The validity and reliability of the procedure are discussed. Typical displacement patterns are shown for normal speakers and applications to cleft palate and laryngectomized speakers discussed."
"A system for telemetering the human electrocardiogram and other parameters over distances in excess of 600 feet through the sea is described. Versatility is obtained by using plug-in subassemblies in the transmitter for the parameters to be monitored. In view of the propagation characteristics of water, 55-kHz ultrasonic energy utilizing frequency modulation was chosen as the optimum transmission method. Problems encountered in underwater telemetry are outlined and techniques for their solutions are discussed. The results of tests are shown which indicate that electrocardiograms of good clinical quality can be obtained from free swimming divers."
"This paper describes a peak amplitude selector designed to analyze electrophysiological phenomena ranging from slow (0.1 to 1 Hz) EEG to fast (up to 200 kHz) multiple neuronal units. The selector's minimum window height of 10 mV, when used on input signals of 0.5 to 1 volt allows the selection of interesting impulses out of a group of impulses with nearly the same amplitude. To increase the selector's usefulness, four data outputs are provided: for use with a paper recorder, two low speed outputs are available- one giving a pulse out for every impulse in the window, and one giving a pulse out for every 10 pulses in the window (to overcome the problem of losing counts when a fast pulse train is processed by a slow system); a high speed output giving one pulse for every impulse in the window is available; finally, an analog output proportional to rate of arrival of impulses in the window is provided. In addition, reference outputs are supplied to display the upper and lower thresholds relative to the signal, so that the window is clearly defined. The circuit is designed to use low cost components."
"A device is described which provides continuous measurement of transepithelial currents in isolated intestine or other tissues while clamping the transmural potential difference at zero or at a predetermined value. With tissues such as intestine, where the apparent tissue resistivity is of the same order as that of the bathing solution between the potential measuring electrodes and the tissue surface, compensation for the IR voltage drop in the solution is required. Using operational amplifiers and a special feedback circuit to drive a summing junction to virtual ground, the device enforces the equation ET-EIR-EVC=0 where ET is the measured transmural potetial difference between a pair of reversible electrodes and EIR is the potential drop in the solution due to the transmural currrent IT. The clamped voltage across the tissue Evc is thus equal to the true transmural potential difference. The circuit employed provides for readout of ET, EIR, Evc, and IT with uncertties emof 0.2 mV and 0.2 μA and a 90 percent response time of 0.1 second. Because of its rapid automatic response, this devie is especially useful for accurately following transient changes in IT following temperature changes or the addition of transported solutes, metabolites, hormones, or drugs to the bathing medium."
"A bridge circuit is described which can be applied to vibrating systems driven by piezoelectric transducers. It may be set up to give a measure of the output velocity at different loads or to respond sensitively to small changes in load."
"A description is given of the modification of the control of the address register of a physiological data analyzer which allows the use of different (presettable) scales in the preset part of the memory."
"Measurements of variations in intensity of light reflected from a moving surface provide a method for quantitating displacement. A system to monitor displacements of a few microns is easily constructed. This technique has wide application in biological experiments, offering the advantage of probeless displacement monitoring."
"The purpose of this section is to provide a view of current research activities in biomedical engineering programs at the universities. As a matter of policy we will accept only abstracts sent to us by professors. Copies of dissertations generally may be obtained from University Microfilms, Inc."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In the study of energizing implantable oscillators by coupling of inductance coils, it is pointed out that the best stability is not necessarily obtained where the magnetic flux density takes its maximum. The conversion of the induced ac voltage to a useful dc voltage can be made in conventional rectifier circuits, but great improvement in operation and economy is offered by transistor rectifier circuits. Two types of transistor rectifiers-the common-base and the common-collector arrangements-are discussed in detail."
"An analysis of a solenoid suitable for direct actuation of a physiological blood pump is carried out in this paper. A general theoretical study of the electromechanical energy conversion process in the solenoid is presented, as well as a discussion of the characteristics of the magnetic circuit configuration. A computer program is described which is based on these results and is used to optimize the solenoid design with respect to conversion efficiency."
"A new technique to compute and display the electroencephalogram (EEG) as a spatio-temporal phenomenon is described. In this technique, position on a cathode ray tube is congruent with position in a recording array of electrodes on the head. The potential distribution over the area of the head covered by the array is computed and displayed as a contour map on the face of the tube. Succeeding displays represent distributions at successive instances of time and are photographed by a motion picture camera. The projected film recreates a time history of the potential field. Though this technique has been developed to investigate characteristic patterns of the electroencephalogram, it has application wherever it is necessary to investigate the time course of spatially distributed phenomena."
"The stereotaxic technique serves as an invaluable tool for the reliable and accurate placement of electrodes in living brain tissue. By placing the stereotaxic device under computer control an entirely new set of operational procedures is established which enhances and enriches the basic capabilities of the stereotaxic technique. The system consists of a number of basic programs which provide for positioning of the electrode, executing the particular experiment and reviewing the data. Programs are available which allow the experimenter to position the electrode at coordinates typed in via an on-line keyboard. One program allows the investigator to specify multiple points at once. The operator merely fills in a simple format displayed on the oscilloscope that defines the geometry of the electrode path. These geometries include points, lines, planes, and volumes. The system successively positions the electrode at all points explicitly and implicitly specified by the format and, at each intermediate point, executes the experimenter's specially written program. The computer presents a display to the investigator after executing his program (for example for stimulating and storing the resultant averaged evoked potentials) at each of those points. A comment may be entered by the experimenter that remains a permanent part of the data set (electrode position-comment-evoked potentials) stored on tape. The data sets may be recalled for review at anytime."
"Because the Forced Expiratory Spirogram Pulmonary Screening test is an effort dependent maneuver, it has several limitations. This report describes a prototype device that overcomes most of these limitations and permits a rapid evaluation of each spirometric effort."
"The purpose of this section is to provide a view of current research activities in biomedical engineering programs at the universities. As a matter of policy we will accept only abstracts sent to us by professors. Copies of dissertations generally may be obtained from University Microfilms, Inc."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"During ancient times and the Middle Ages, knowledge about veins was more accurate than about arteries and the heart. The description of valves in the veins in 1536 induced William Harvey to think that blood flows unidirectionally. This reasoning led him to the discovery of circulation in 1628. Thereafter the venous system received little attention. Venous pressures were first measured by Stephen Hales in 1733. Albrecht von Haller (1707-1788) described the respiratory pump aiding venous return. Introduction of the mercury manometer by Jean Poiseuille (1799-1869) facilitated research on arteries but discouraged venous research by making low pressures more difficult to measure. Pierre Potain (1825-1901) and Sir James Mackenzie (1853-1925) analyzed the venous pulse with tambour recorders. Kenneth Franklin renewed interest in the subject through his book A Monograph on Veins (1937). Development of high-fidelity sensitive instruments during the last two decades finally resolved some fundamental problems concerning the venous system."
"Control of the capacity of the venous system has been postulated as necessary to provide increased venous return to initiate an increase in cardiac output. In chronic animal experiments, we have studied the dimensions of the liver, spleen, and the superior vena cava as venous reservoirs in relation to fright, exercise, and shock. Two methods used were miniature mutual inductance coils and ultrasonic transit time technique; the former is a relatively simple and reliable, but nonquantifiable method. The sonar method is quantifiable, but to date has been unsatisfactory for narrow ranges. The spleen in the dog is a superb volume reservoir, but the liver is not. The superior vena cava, in at least some circumstances, demonstrates active constriction. With the onset of exercise, flow increased in the cava before either an increase in heart rate or an increase in stroke volume. With hemorrhagic shock, pooling of blood in the mesenteric veins was sometimes found, but there was no evidence of failure of the neural mechanisms of venoconstriction, evidenced by a marked, agonal contraction. With endotoxin shock, no portal pooling was observed; earlier reports of pooling based on weight changes were probably due to extravasated plasma secondary to endothelial damage and marked portal venoconstriction. Venous pooling in the legs in man in shock can be prevented by elevation of the legs without the disadvantages of the head-down (Trendelenburg) position."
"After a brief review of the venous wall structure, the physical properties of veins are discussed in terms of their stress-strain relationships. In contrast to the high pressure arterial system, the low pressure venous system may exhibit large changes in volume without major pressure changes. Inferences about wall properties and intravascular volume from pressure measurements alone are thus meaningless. Depending upon the interplay between intra- and extravascular forces, the venous cross section may oscillate between complete collapse and a circular shape. The stress-strain relationships are both nonlinear and time dependent. Comparative data are given for representative arteries and veins and the distribution of blood volume within the peripheral vasculature is discussed. Finally, some of the venomotor agents and their effects upon stress-strain relations are reviewed."
"The mechanical behavior of the abdominal venae cavae of anesthetized dogs has been studied by measuring the speed, attenuation, and changes in waveform of various kinds of artificially induced pressure signals. The propagation of large amplitude pressure waves is shown to be affected by reflection interference and pronounced nonlinear phenomena. For pressure signals exceeding a few mmHg the speed increases with amplitude and the wave front steepens during propagation as in the early phases of the formation of a shock wave. By inducing distension waves in the form of finite trains of sine waves with amplitudes less than 20 mmH2O the dispersion and attenuation were determined without requiring Fourier transform computations. At transmural pressures between 50 and 300 mmH2O and frequencies between 20 and 100 Hz the vena cava was found to be only mildly dispersive and the logarithmic decrement appears to be independent of frequency. Irrespective of the amplitude and shape of the pressure signals, their speeds varied along the vena cava, and also with respiration. In addition, the speeds generally increased under the influence of the chemical and electrical stimuli applied, and with rising transmural pressure."
"The flow of blood in veins differs from the flow of liquids in rigid, circular tubes in that veins are collapsible vessels. Studies in models employing thin-walled rubber tubes and in the intact animal have shown that the flow (ml/s) of liquid through such a collapsible tube, in which the pressure immediately downstream to the collapsed segment is less than the pressure surrounding the collapsed segment, is unaffected by changes in the downstream pressure. With changes in the downstream pressure the collapsed tube automatically adjusts its resistance so that flow remains constant. In the mammalian organism the flow of blood in veins above heart level, and at the points where veins enter the low pressure area of the thorax, is governed by the principles of flow through collapsible tubes. The importance of the collapse phenomena in the flow of blood through the lung and other organs is discussed. Flow through such tubes is a special case of Bernoulli's theorem for the flow of viscous liquids, and under certain circumstances it is described with a reasonable degree of accuracy by a modification of the Hagen-Poiseuille law for tubes of elliptical cross section."
"The pressure-flow characteristic of a short collapsible tube held open at its ends and inserted between two constrictions was investigated as a function of flow for different external pressures and downstream constrictions. Taking the upstream and downstream pressure and the flow through the tube as coordinates, a surface can be determined from which the results of any steady flow investigation at constant external pressure can be calculated. The surface has three regions corresponding to the open, partially collapsed, and almost completely collapsed tube. Steady flow through the tube was a multiple-valued function of the pressure drop across it. A collapsible tube is thus a flow-controlled nonlinear resistance, (QNLR) whose shape depends on external pressure and downstream circuit. The magnitude of the negative dynamic resistance (slope of the pressure drop-flow curve at the operating point) of the QNLR was approximately equal to the dynamic resistance of the downstream circuit. Negative dynamic resistance appeared when the tube collapsed at a critical transmural pressure independent of flow. The tube oscillated and amplified when the dynamic resistance was negative, but would not switch. An equivalent circuit for the tube was proposed with a variable compliance in shunt across a QNLR and variable inertance in series. Van der Polls equation qualitatively described oscillations in the tube. The collapsible tube model should apply to fluid conductors whose lumen significantly varies, for example, veins, coronary arteries, muscle pumps, and cardiac assist devices."
"The cross section of veins changes both in area and in shape as the transmural pressure varies. This implies that the relationship between pressure and flow in such collapsible vessels is not a linear one. In this paper, the techniques which apply to arteries are extended to include the case where the tube may collapse, as in the case of veins, and a relationship between pressure and flow is determined. The veins were considered to be long, straight, unbranched, and flexible, and the function which gives the cross-sectional area in terms of the transmural pressure was assumed to be known from other sources. The blood was assumed to be homogeneous, incompressible, and viscous. The equations to be solved were the linearized form of the Navier-Stokes equation and the continuity equation. An operating point was chosen and all variables were restricted to small neighborhoods about these operating points. The resulting analysis was identical to that for the arterial case except for the one condition that the cross sections were not circular. In this case, closed-form solutions to the equations were not available. It was shown that, as long as the velocity profiles were not needed, explicit solutions to the equations were not required. The relationship between the flow and the pressure was expressed in terms of the boundary conditions, the angular frequency, and the complex wave velocity. An expression for the complex wave velocity could be obtained only from a solution to the equations of fluid flow. However, it was shown that, except for a multiplicative constant, or \"shape factor,\" the complex wave velocity was approximately independent of the cross-sectional shape. This permitted the use of the expression for the complex wave velocity which applies to the circular case. With this information, the pressure-flow relationship was comIpletely specified. This relationship was modified so that expressions for the fluid longitudinal impedance and the fluid transverse aamittance were obtained. In addition, an electric circuit analog was developed."
"We attempt to define, in terms familiar to engineers, physicists, and workers in the life sciences, the uncontrolled mechanical system returning venous blood to the right heart. Our ultimate aim is to complete a description of the venous circulation useful to close the loop with current models of the arterial circulation and the heart. Such a detailed global circulatory model will incorporate eventually enough control theory to render insight into basic regulatory mechanisms of man in health and disease. Only a multidisciplinary approach can lead to this ultimate objective."
"An analog computer model of the human cardiovascular system has been set up in which detailed attention is given to the representation of pressure and flow events in the veins, including effects of gravity, collapse, breathing, and the action of venous valves. This model, which includes a control loop for heart rate, was checked against human venous pressure waveforms and against response of the human to tilt-table experiments. These comparisons indicate that the model is valid for the study of postulated venous tone control characteristics; it should also be useful in the study of the mechanisms of venous return and circulatory system response during unusual acceleration conditions."
"The validity of hemodynamic theories developed for the arterial tree is examined with respect to their applicability to the venous system. The Navier-Stokes and continuity equations are given and the assumptions (in terms of these equations) found useful and justifiable for arterial theories are briefly described. The validity of these assumptions with respect to the venous system is considered. The significance of the dissimilarities in terms of computer simulation (analog and digital) is discussed. It is concluded that in regions which do not collapse much of the theory developed for the arterial system is applicable; in those regions which do collapse, theories based on the nonlinear Navier-Stokes equation should be considered."
"For satisfactory controllable light stimulus to be used for experiments on the human pupillary servomechanism, we designed a system using a potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) electrooptic light modulator and an amplifier capable of giving a suitable high-voltage signal."
"Fourier analyses of physiological pressure and flow signals are required to determine the complex fluid impedance at the various harmonics of the fundamental frequency. Digital computer programming is eased if a readily recognized event initiates the simultaneous recording of both pressure and flow signals. Digital switching elements in simple electronic circuits are used to synchronously initiate pacemaker, pressure, and flow signals."
"The purpose of this section is to provide a view of current research activities in biomedical engineering programs at the universities. As a matter of policy we will accept only abstracts sent to us by professors. Copies of dissertations generally may be obtained from University Microfilms, Inc."
"The publication offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings of the 10th Annual Symposium on Switching and Automata Theory (Swat 1969)."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Let Φ be any abstract measure of computational complexity, and let L denote the specific measure of memory resource (tape) on one tape Turing machines. Denote by Rt( )Φ the class of all total functions whose Φ-complexity is bounded by the function t( ) almost everywhere. Call such classes Φ-complexity classes. We are interested in relationships among these classes, under proper set inclusion (⊂). In other words, we are interested in the partially ordered structure ≪ ΣΦ,⊆ ≫ where ΣΦ = {Rt( )Φ|t( ) is recursive} is called the family of Φ-complexity classes. Of special interest is the subfamily ΩΦ = {RΦi( )Φ | Φi( ) is total}, called the family of exact Φ-complexity classes. We show that ΣL and ΩL are dense under ⊂ for sufficiently large bounds t( ), but ΩL is not dense in ΣL. We also construct measures Φ for which ΣΦ and ΩΦ are non-dense, for which ΣΦ is dense but ΩΦ is not, for which ΩΦ is dense but ΣΦ is not and for which ΩΦ is dense in ΣΦ. Thus density is not a measure invariant property of ΣΦ or ΩΦ. These are the first examples of important structural properties of these families which are not measure invariant."
"This paper continues investigations pertaining to recursive bounds on computing resources (such as time or memory) and the amount by which these bounds must be increased if new computations are to occur within the new bound. The paper proves that no recursive operator can increase every recursive bound enough to reach new computations. In other words, given any general recursive operator F[ ], there is an arbitarily large recursive t( ) such that between bound t( ) and bound F[t( )]( ) there is a gap in which no new computation runs. This demonstrates that the gap phenomenon first discovered by Borodin for composition is a deeply intrinsic property of computational complexity measures. Moreover, the Operator Gap Theorem proved here is shown to be the strongest possible gap theorem for general recursive operators. The proof involves a priority argument but is sufficiently self-contained that it can easily be read by a wide audience. The paper also discusses interesting connections between the Operator Gap Theorem and McCreight & Meyer's important result that every complexity class can be named by a function from a measured set."
"Iterative procedures have many advantages for computation, for instance an approximation to the final answer is provided even if the computation stops abruptly. A model for iterative computation is proposed where a procedure G executed repeatedly \"converges\" to a function f. A notion of approximation of functions on the integers is used based on limits of densities. Some results on the power of iteration and iterative extensions are obtained. The relation between iteration and composition is investigated. Heuristic procedures are defined. Many interesting problems remain open. The area is very interesting, since a combination of tools from Analysis and Automata theory can be used."
"This paper develops techniques for establishing a lower bound on the number of arithmetic operations necessary for sets of simple expressions. The techniques are applied to matrix multiplication. A modification of Strassen's algorithm is developed for multiplying n × p matrices by p × q matrices. The techniques are used to prove that this algorithm minimizes the number of multiplications for a few special cases. In so doing we establish that matrix multiplication with elements from a commutative ring requires fewer multiplications than with elements from a non-commutative ring."
"Some properties of multiprocessing systems, i.e. computing systems in which a set of computational elements share a pool of storage elements are investigated. In particular, the conditions for the output-functionality of these systems are studied, where a computing systems is defined as being output-functional when it produces the same sequence of outputs for the same program, initial state, and input sequence. It is shown that this property is associated with a relation between situations of storage interference and certain ordering schemes of instructions in a program."
"The problem of assigning a probability to each string of a language L(G) generated by a grammar G is considered. Two methods are considered. One method assigns a probability to each production associated with G and the other assigns the probabilities on the basis of particular features of the language. Several necessary conditions that must be satisfied by these probability assignment techniques if they are to be consistant are presented. The problem of recognizing languages is also considered. It is shown that under some conditions it is possible to recognize a non finitestate language with a finite state acceptor if one is willing to accept a small probability of making an error."
"The stochastic sequential machine is invariably treated as the stochastic extension of the completely-specified deterministic machine. This paper investigates the incompletely-specified finite-state stochastic sequential machine from the viewpoint of machine equivalence and reduction. Definitions are chosen and procedures developed so that they reduce to the conventional froms in the special cases of complete specification and/or deterministic machines."
"Results on two distinct aspects of the theory of probabilistic automata (PA) are presented. Part I is devoted to two generalizations of the theory of loop-free decomposition of stochastic finite-state systems formulated by G. Bacon. The first generalization consists of making a modification in the decomposition scheme of Bacon to allow for the decomposition of a larger class of systems. The second generalization subsumes the first; it is shown that there exist stochastic finite-state systems which admit a loop-free decomposition for a proper subset of the set of all initial distributions on their state set, while both Bacon's theory and our first generalization hold for the set of all initial distributions. Sufficient conditions are given in both cases. In Part II linear probabilistic automata (LPA) are introduced. These are PA which can be realized by linear sequential circuits some of whose inputs are multinomial stochastic processes. It is shown that if a mod-2 LPA is driven by a single binomial process, then it will define regular languages only, and that this is not true for mod'3 LPA. The stability problem is discussed for mod-2 and mod-3 LPA driven by single binomial and trinomial processes respectively and different results are obtained in either case. Finally it is shown that if a mod-2 LPA has a critical cut-point, then this cutpoint is unique."
"A pushdown table machine can be simulated by a computer in time n log log n where n is the number of table machine operations. A finite state table machine can be simulated in linear time."
"This paper is concerned with the recognition of Context-free and deterministic 1-way stack (sa) languages, using n-dimensional Iterative Finitestate Automata (n-D IFA). A problem posed by Cole3 is also answered."
"A context-sensitive grammar G is said to be CS(k) iff a particular kind of table-driven parser, Jk(G), exists. Corresponding to each Jk(G), we define a class of parsers Jk(G). Jk(G) is itself a Jk(G). The main results are: 1. Any processor Jk(G) for a CS(k) grammar G accepts exactly the sentences of G. 2. The set of languages generable by CS(k) grammars is exactly the set of languages accepted by deterministic linear-bounded automata (DLBA's). 3. (a) It is undecidable whether there exists any k ≥ 0 such that an arbitrary CSG is CS(k). (b) For every fixed k ≥ 0, there is no algorithm that will decide if G is CS(k) and also construct Jk(G) if it exists. 4. For any DLBA MI algorithms are given to (i) construct a CS(k) grammar GM that generates the language accepted by M, and (ii) construct a processor J1 (GM). 5. CS(k) grammars are unambiguous. 6. The sentences of a CS(k) grammar can be parsed in a time proportional to the length of their derivations."
"An n-dimensional bug-automation is generalization of a finite state acceptor to n-dimensions. With each bug B, we associate the language L(B) which is the set of top rows of the n-dimensional rectangular arrays accepted by B. One-dimensional bugs define trivially the regular sets. Twodimensional bugs define precisely the context-sensitive languages, while bugs of dimension 3 or greater define all the recursively enumerable sets. We consider also finite state acceptors with n two-way non-writing input tapes. For each such machine M, let domain (M) be the set of all strings which are the first component of some n-tuple of tapes accepted by M. For any n ≥ l, the domains of n-tape two-way finite state acceptors are precisely the same as the languages definable by n-dimensional bugs, so as a corollary, the domains of two-tape two-way finite state acceptors are precisely the context-sensitive languages."
"A new model of abstract automata is presented employing the concept of finite automata on a network. Each normal network n provided with a one-way input tape determines a family of languages nl. A representation theorem, analogous to the Chomsky-Schützenberger representation theorem for context free languages1, is proved for the class nl. One consequence is that nl is a principal full AFL generated by a closed set (one that contains all its prefixes). The converse is also proved, thereby establishing an equivalence between families of languages defined by normal networks and principal full AFLs generated by closed sets. The representation theorem is applied to the push-down store and Turing machine networks to obtain a stronger version of the Ginsburg, Greibach, and Harrison representation theorem for recursively enumerable sets6."
"Some new techniques for finding minimal set of tests which detect faults in combinational logic networks are described. A systematic procedure which can be programmed on a digital computer is given. Moreover, a new approach to the design of fault detection experiments for sequential machines which takes into account the actual construction of the sequential network is described."
"The automata roots of path sensitizing fault diagnosis are discussed. It is demonstrated that the path sensitizing diagnosis method is equivalent to a Moore type \"machine identification\" experiment for a machine class which contains good and faulty copies of a transmission path submachine of a complete machine. The maximum length of a complete set of path sensitizing tests for a machine is proporational to n, the number of states in the complete machine, rather than n2 as required by direct use of the Moore \"machine identification\" method without partitioning of the complete machine into a set of submachines. For memoryless irredundant machines the fault resolution power of a complete set of path sensitizing tests is, nevertheless, the maximum which is possible if no submachine with a fault is used as a sensitizing vehicle. The use of the path sensitizing method in irredundant sequential machines with memory, on the other hand, may not yield the maximum fault resolution power since those faults which have been grouped together in the faulty copy of a particular transmission path submachine may be distinguishable from each other."
"Despite the numerous threshold logic synthesis methods developed in the past decade, the logic designer is still handicapped by the technological independent characterization of these methods. Hence, it has long been the desire for the logic designer to have a simple, efficient threshold-logic synthesis method, analogous to conventional Boolean synthesis using ANDs, ORs, or combinations of ANDs and ORs. The scope of this paper is to describe the theoretical basis of a direct and efficient synthesis method for a threshold function(s) from its Boolean expression. A set of recursive formulas of weight and threshold is thus derived. This method is capable of handling a relatively large number of Boolean variables, whether the Boolean expression is a single threshold function or compound threshold functions. The minimal realization of the Boolean threshold function can also be obtained. Another noted advantage of this recursive synthesis method is to give a clearer picture by permitting the investigator to examine every intermediate step while the final solution is being attained."
"Previous papers have shown that for any given n-input synchronous sequential machine there exists a circuit realization in which the circuit consists of a finite number of identical copies of one module and in which the modules are interconnected in a uniform manner. This paper shows that additionally the signal fan-in to every module and the signal fan-out from every module and from the input can be bounded by a constant and that the modules can be interconnected in a planar structure. This paper also investigates several properties of these circuits and establishes several necessary conditions that these circuits must have. Two desirable design goals are shown to be simultaneously unachievable"
"A superAFL is a family of languages closed under union with unitary sets, intersection with regular sets, and nested iterated substitution and containing at least one nonunitary set. Every superAFL is a full AFL containing all context-free languages. If L is a full principal AFL, then S∞(L, the least superAFL containing L, is full principal. If L is not substitution closed, the substitution closure of L is properly contained in S∞ (L). The index languages form a superAFL which is not the least superAFL containing the one way stack languages. If L has a decidable emptiness problem, so does S∞ (L). If Ds is an AFA, L=L (Ds) and Dw is the family of machines whose data structure is a pushdown store of tapes of Ds, then L (Dw) = S∞(L) if and only if Ds is nontrivial. If Ds is uniformly erasable and L(Ds) has a decidable emptiness problem, then it is decidable if a member of Dw is finitely nested."
"It is shown that a class of languages is defined by a class of two-way deterministic balloon automata if and only if that class is closed under marked union, marked Kleene closure and the inverse mappings performed by GSM's that move two ways on the input. Hence, the context sensitive languages and various time and tape complexity classes are equivalent to classes of 2DBA."
"In this paper, we have introduced a new style of formal grammars called String Adjunct Grammars (AG). The rules in an AG have a considerably different formal character as compared to the 'rewrite rule' in a Phrase Structure Grammar (PSG). Such a study of formal grammars of different styles (i.e., formal character of rules) is of great interest because each style is well suited for characterizing certain aspects of natural language structure and is awkward for characterizing certain other aspects. Several subclasses of AG's motivated by strong linguistic considerations have been studied, comparing them with PSG's. Linguistic relevance of these grammars (and other gram mars suggested by this study) has been discussed at the end."
"A new type of grammar, called a parallel leveled grammar, is introduced. The families of languages generated by such grammars with contextfree, linear or right-linear subrules are studied. Right-linear parallel finite-leveled languages can be displayed as nested vector expressions, which are extensions of regular expressions. Various hierarchy theorems for these families of languages are obtained. A normal form for context-free parallel leveled grammars is derived and connections of these with other families of languages are investigated."
"The industries relying on information and forecasts of oceanic movements are increasing so rapidly that oceanography is now an important technology. Data necessary for shipping and prospecting are gained by using the latest electronic- and mechanical-engineering techniques."
"`Failure' of some students is an inevitable result of the stratification that exists in higher education, and high failure rates in scientific and engineering subjects may have assisted the swing towards arts subjects at sixth-form level. Why do some students fail after good examination results at school? This article reports an investigation carried out on CNAA B.Sc. honours-degree students in the department of electrical & electronic engineering of the Brighton College of Technology during the 1967-68 session."
"Apart from their obvious advantage of flexibility, flexible printed circuits offer ease of installation, accuracy, repeatability and resistance to shock, high temperatures and chemical attack. The use of modern continuous processing techniques mean that their prices should continue to fall, making them more competitive with conventional cables in a wide range of applications, and increasing their use in new applications such as television scanning coils and computer memories."
"Modern industry is dependent on accurate measurement, but there are clear indications that the teaching of the basic principles of measurement has been neglected at all levels of technical education. A recent conference examined this, and other, problems associated with measurement education, and suggested ways in which these problems could be solved."
"What are the functions and future of the engineering institution in Britain? In this article the author makes proposals for the future rather than criticising what has already been done, with an aim to stimulating discussion on the topic."
"Present-day electrical engineers make frequent use of the concepts of logic in the design and operation of computers and automatic control systems. Some of these ideas date back more than 2000 years, when logic was concerned with ideas expressed in words. In the 19th century, mathematicians found it possible to work out logical problems by means of algebra. A new look was given to the subject in the 20th century with the use of electical circuitry to perform logic operations."
"Model building is familiar to engineers. In psychology, too, certain models have been evolved to explain in part, or in whole, the complexities of human behaviour. This article uses these models to present elements of psychology simply to engineers; it may give them a clearer understanding of what are, after all, their own selves."
"In this shortened version of his IEE presidential address, Mr. Edmundson looks at some aspects of electrical manufacture. Engineers ultimately deal with products, and engineering design can only be built on a knowledge of manufacturing methods. Electrical engineers can make significant contributions to manufacture and to factory life generally, particularly as new technologies are developed and traditional concepts of manufacture are challenged."
"Since early 1966, when the most recent developments in sodium conductor were announced, this material has been seriously evaluated to determine whether it has a place in the hierarchy of power cables. The recent increases in the prices of copper and aluminium conductors, resulting from the devaluation of sterling, have given sodium, which is indigenous, an economic entry into a market which demands high tandards of performance and safety. The adoption of techniques that allow the application of sodium conductors to distribution systems up to 33 kV should enable it to satisfy technical requirements also. However, the full advantages of economy and simplicity of use which the sodium conductor affords cannot be obtained until it is manufactured in Britain."
"Reliability is a complex subject, and is particularly important to engineers in the electronics industry. The engineering designer often fails to get adequate feedback of information on reliability, and the customer has little chance of getting speedy information on the reliability of products he receives. A forthcoming major conference is to be devoted to the topic of reliability in electronics, and should give answers to some of these problems."
"Systems engineering can be described as the study of complex systems to ensure that they achieve their objectives as efficiently as possible. The objective of this article is to present very briefly the philosophy behind the systems-engineering approach to systems design and illustrate it by highlighting a few problem areas, and to suggest possible benefits to be derived from this approach."
"Control of the East Midlands Gas Board's gas supergrid, linking supply centres to areas of demand, is maintained by means of broadband microwave data links between six transmitting stations and u.h.f. scanning of 40 outstations."
"As the date for the change to the metric system in Britain approaches, the propaganda offered so far to the engineering fraternity seems to have failed in its task. Possibly this is because different approaches are required to `imperialists` and to `grammarians`. The SI is the simplest and most coherent system of units yet evolved, and should be readily acceptable to engineers, for whom it has been designed."
"The originality of Nikola Tesla has not always received true recognition in Britain. This short biography not only provides a description of the man but also emphasises the significance of his contributions to the development of electrical engineering."
"In the space of 100 years, modern electric lighting has evolved from candles, carbon-arc lamps and incandescent filament lamps. Spectacular developments in recent years of tungsten-filament and fluorescent lamps have greatly increased their colour rendering, efficiencies and lives, and promise a 'bright' outlook for the future."
"As reliability considerations become more important in modern electronic systems, the need to teach the subject adequately in engineer and technician-engineer courses becomes paramount. A case can be made for including in such courses the basic concepts of reliability, taught at a mainly non-mathematical level, and including the concepts of operability and maintainability."
"The electronics industry has become the index of industrial power for major industrial nations, replacing the symbolic image previously held by steel and electric power. The output of electronics in the United Kingdom, which has risen by 85% since 1961, is likely to expand by a further 70% (over £450 million) to meet demands in the period up to 1970. The electronics industry in the UK is already more than 2½ times the size of the shipbuilding industry, and only 20% smaller than the cotton industry. This may seem rather surprising, especially in view of the relative youth of the electronics industry, but it does emphasise the growing influence of electronic products on our way of life."
"Harmonics are of great importance in many applications, but methods of evaluating them and their effects are generally either time-consuming or expensive. This article describes the design and construction of a generator capable of producing high-power outputs at any of ten fundamental frequencies and containing odd harmonics up to the 13th. Primarily a synthetiser, the equipment is also of value in analysis."
"The origin of the volt goes back to the early days of electrochemistry, when the Daniell cell was accepted as the first basic unit of electromotive force. In this historical account, the author traces how power-supply and transmission-system voltages have changed and increased as technology and load demands advanced."
"For a very large system, such as a complete guided-weapons complex, a more comprehensive procedure than the basic one is required for the development and introduction of electronic and electromechanical equipment into operation in the Royal Navy. There is a great need for maintainability, and for a management tool which can aid design for good maintainability as well as provide the functionally identified information required for the maintenance handbook."
"Engineers normally become engineers because they like designing things and then making them work successfully. It takes some time before they realise that 20-35% of their working time involves calculating. A conversational computing system, working as it does on a step-by-step basis with its input/output units conveniently placed in boardrooms, offices or laboratoriesand costing no more than a manager or good engineer (say £2000-3000 per annum), permitsthe construction and manipulation of mathematical models in a manner not previously possible. Thus the engineer is now able to obtain a much deeper understanding of the interrelationship between variables, and designs can be optimised."
"During the past year or two, most designers will have seen references to the online-computing services that are now becoming available. The organisations promoting these services usually emphasise certain features-the provision of a computer terminal in the designer's own office or department, the rapid return of results, and the joys of holding a `conversation' with a computer. This article sets out to examine the role of this kind of computing service as an aid to circuit design."
"The use of computers in mechanical-engineering design is often limited by the vague nature of mechanical problems, except in such fields as heat-engine design where abstract functions of state are concerned. However, in cases where analytical methods can be applied, computer programs can be developed which lead to a big reduction in calculating time."
"Although the computer is well established as a design aid for the engineer, some problems need a closer link between user and computer than is normally provided. It is now possible to display performance graphs, network diagrams etc. with a cathode-ray tube, and by using a light pen one may communicate directly with the computer by pointing at items displayed. Some applications are feasible now and others may become economic as new types of display tube are developed."
"In January 1969, the IEE's Science Abstracts and Current Papers journals were printed for the first time by computer-controlled phototypesetting from magnetic tape. The significance of this development is far greater than if it were simply a means of sorting abstracts automatically and publishing them more rapidly; the computer-based data files will lend themselves to a wide range of services covering a much wider range of topics."
"Although no more than about ten people are killed annually in Britain by lightning, even this figure could be readily reduced by a wider understanding of basic lightning protection, and in countries where lightning is much more prevalent the problem of both structural and personal protection is, of course, of great importance."
"Field control is little more than applied commonsense, but it has been applied very successfully in certain sections of the British electricity-supply industry. It releases the engineer from much routine administrative work and frees him to do more engineering. It establishes a clearly defined line of authority, and provides the setting for the introduction of productivity controls and new types of incentive scheme."
"In recent years, new knowledge of the solid state and the scientific study of surfaces and interfaces have resulted in a rapid development of the thin-film field-effect transistor. The t.f.t. can be formed on inexpensive substrates, such as glass and paper, and its future could lie in its use as a really cheap device of moderate performance, made with plant of low capital cost."
"Many engineers, including people connected with integrated circuits, are not aware that glass is used in most present-day integrated circuits and that some of the earliest integrated-circuit concepts originated in the United Kingdom."
"An American study has estimated that in the USA 16000000 engineer man-hours are spent each year in searching for technical information instead of in designing. Once the central nature of this problem has been analysed and reduced to its component parts, any good system designer can produce a `perfect solution'. Unfortunately, the cost of this system would probably be prohibitive, depending on whether you rate human beings' real value to be their decision-making ability or whether you think you can afford to waste their time in manual and repetitive operations."
"Because some members and prospective members of the IEE find difficulty in interpreting the 'superior-responsibility' clause of Bylaw 11a, which governs the election of Fellows of the Institution, the Membership Committee invited the author to express his view, based on his past experience of membership matters, of the principles involved. Nevertheless, the committee feels that it must state that it cannot be bound by individual interpretations that may be put on particular phrases in this article, because so much depends on individual circumstances, as the article explains."
"Observations during the Second World War on certain types of radar `clutter' interference led to the discovery that flocks of birds can produce substantial radar echoes, and that migratory flights of birds can be tracked by radar. This subject of `radar ornithology' has provided much new information about the flight behaviour of birds; it is now being used to assess the hazards which birds present to low-altitude aircraft."
"In recent years, engineers and scientists have penetrated into British Parliamentary life more than ever before. Science and technology are making an impact on Britain's ancient Parliamentary institutions, which must evolve and change in order to survive. Because of the importance of engineering to presentday life, it is important that engineers should be prominent in the governing institutions of our industrial society."
"The conventional cathode-ray tube has many disadvantages when used for the display of alphanumeric data-mainly because of its dimness. It has been estimated that the brightness produced by a Matricon display is 20 times higher than is possible using an ordinary cursive system. Recently, c.r.t.s. containing line-Matricon-type guns have been used to produce linear displays from thermographic equipment."
"The problems of updating technical knowledge and of keeping pace with technological progress are not new; they have simply become so acute in the present era, and threaten to become so much greater, that solutions can no longer be postponed."
"The 2000 MW oil-fired generating station at Fawley, due for completion in 1970, will incorporate computer control of each boiler/turbine unit. This article describes the extent of the control system and the techniques used to produce basic control programs. The program for controlling boiler fans is considered in detail, together with more general details of program-commissioning procedures."
"Electrical equipment in British warships has traditionally been divided into `high-power' and `low-power' categories, but the rate of progress of electronic devices has been such that the old barriers are being broken down. Among the latest electronic equipment designed for use in naval vessels are new speed controllers and voltage regulators at one end of the scale, and micro-electronic telephone exchanges at the other."
"Traditional methods of planning, scheduling, and control have proved to be unequal to the problems encountered in the complex operations of modern industry. There are many organisations to whom the advent of a new technique is seen as a panacea for all its ills. One finds senior management totally uninformed as to the technique itself and vague as to the reasons for adopting this technique, other than corporate 'keeping up with the Joneses'. Network analysis is one method that has successfully found a place in modern management methods."
"Therapeutic electricity as discussed in this article describes all cases where electricity is applied directly to the body with the intention of curing disease or alleviating symptoms. This definition thus includes, but is not limited by, those procedures which traditionally fall within the province of `electrotherapy'. The therapeutic effects of electricity were known by philosophers 2000 years ago, and nowadays thousands of people owe their lives to developments such as heart pacemakers."
"About 15000 high-voltage-supply interruptions are caused by lightning each year in Britain. Valuable livestock is lost, trees and buildings are set on fire, radiocommunication is adversely affected and, occasionally, people are killed. In countries of higher lightning activity, these events are multiplied many times. Occasionally, major disasters occur, such as the loss of an aircraft, and it is as well to realise that there are countries with 20 times as much lightning as occurs in Britain."
"The object of everyone in industry is to make profits, and some of us spend a lot of our time devising ways of making better profits. This article explains one way of making better profits that is, perhaps, not being exploited in Britain as much as it should be. This is process control-the control of any manufacturing process, be it large or small, continuous or batch, modern or old-fashioned."
"The average engineer probably finds the law interesting, but, in line with almost everybody else, considers that close personal contact with it is a thing to be avoided. Nevertheless, from time to time it is apt to intrude on him and provoke, puzzle, entertain or even exasperate him."
"Despite the phenomenal growth of microelectronics and its associated technology, there are certain basic principles of electrical-engineering education that remain unchanged. Engineers must be taught the principles of their discipline in such a way that they are capable of assimilating new developments; new ideas and techniques must be taught - often at length - but they should not be allowed to obscure the fundamental principles."
"Linear motors, for several years the subject of much speculation, have at last reached the stage where their practical application to high-speed transport systems is within sight. High-speed applications constitute the most severe test of the theory of linear induction machines, but the stage of academic discussions is rapidly giving way to that of investing large sums of money in the development of these motors."
"Long-distance-communication capability is expanding at a rapid rate. The relatively narrowband submarine cables of the early 1960s and the overcrowded h.f. radio spectrum are being superseded by the ever increasing geostationary-satellite complex and by wideband cables. The future of high-speed data transmission, multichannel television and educational programmes looks bright. But will society be able to make good use of an international communication system whose capacity has virtually exploded overnight?"
"Arts affinity to engineering from Aristotle to Faraday and from Giotto to Picasso is lightly drawn in this article. What did Plato say about artists? Who was the Borgia's engineer? Will the computer replace the artist? Using the relationship between art and engineering as a basis, a few kites are flown about the engineer's place in society, education's theme and what to do with institutions."
"Because electrical engineering is developing rapidly, it is inevitable that at certain times some of its many branches will become more prominent than others. Although high-voltage engineering may not always be the centre of special attention, it has for long been of importance and is likely to remain so. Teaching and research in high-voltage engineering at universities will thus retain a valuable place in the training of young electrical engineers, and will help to stimulate and encourage interest in electrical power engineering."
"The annual report of the Council of Engineering Institutions covers the 12 months up to the 30th September 1968. Extracts from the report are given here."
"The building up of a model of a nation's economy can show the interdependence of growth in the public and private sectors, the level of unemployment and the balance of payments. The field is ripe for development and for exploitation of modern controltheory techniques; here is an opportunity for economists and control engineers to develop a highly important interdisciplinary topic."
"The applied-research activities of Britain's universities have come in for some adverse criticism in recent years, as has the quality of some Ph.D.s who enter industry from universities. The picture is not as black as it has sometimes been painted, and a few basic reforms in the university system and the way in which Ph.D.s are awarded could transform the whole scene."
"Superconductivity has been studied for nearly 60 years, and the development of this effect in transport could prove to be a wise investment. For instance, by halving the weight of Concorde's generators, the aircraft's revenue-earning potential could be increased by over £300000."
"The first industrial revolution was based on the hand, the second revolution on the brain. May we expect a third? In 2000 years, large areas of the world have become more humane places in which to live, but the change has not been fast enough."
"Universities are almost the most ancient institutions in the world, and their problems are many and various. They have survived the attacks of kings, emperors, churchmen and ordinary citizens. Although they may have to reform and adapt themselves, they will have to listen to the ideas of the rising generation. Some universities may face serious trouble, but should survive and emerge from their troubles stronger than ever and better fitted to face the future. They will remain the most flexible and the most conservative, and the oldest and most modern, institutions in the world. But we must, remember that some of their students, somewhere, sometimes, may have been goaded beyond endurance. Some students may have talked a lot of nonsense-but some of them may be right."
"The software aspect has become a dominant factor in the planning of computer programs and in the operation of computers. Its complications and incomprehensible terminology are hampering the introduction of computers into ordinary businesses."
"The ever increasing material wealth of our society has resulted in a continuing rise in demand for electrical energy in the United Kingdom. At the present time, our knowledge of electrical technology dictates that the most economic method of supplying this essential need is to generate in large units, and then distribute over a wide area to the very large number of consumers via of network of cables."
"Although integrated-circuit concepts have been with us for over ten years, the microelectronics industry still has its problems: which types of circuit to use; which production techniques are most cost-effective etc. This article takes a look at some of these difficulties and shows how they are being solved by one American manufacturer."
"Marconi is generally credited with the invention of radio, but evidence suggests that Sir Oliver Lodge transmitted genuine radio signals almost a year earlier, although he did not appreciate the significance of his achievement at the time and failed to follow it up."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"By the time you read these words, the United States Senate, after a spring filled with much preliminary debate, probably will have settled the latest round in the unprecedentedly acrimonious national controversy over the antiballistic missile. The Senate must decide on the Nixon Administration's request for $800 million this fiscal year with which to begin deploying an ABM system named Safeguard. Its decision will not end the debate. Like most previous decisions in the difficult arena of national security- whether made by Congress, the Defense Department, or the President-this one too will leave the losers alive and determined to fight on. Whether the nuclear war, that sane men on all sides of this continuing controversy hope to avoid, would leave even the winners in such relatively satisfactory shape is a moot point. But it goes to the heart of the controversy. Because this question of ``Who and what would survive a nuclear war?'' has remained unanswerable to such untutored minds as mine since the end of World War II, until rather recently I, like most of you, no doubt, paid only passing attention to the great ABM debate."
"Viewing the ABM in the context of the dynamics of the arms race, Rathjens concludes that our deployment of it at this time may be premature and provocative. It will stimulate the Soviet Union to respond, he thinks, both offensively and defensively, just as they- and we-have responded in the past to real or imagined threats. And we will again respond to their real or anticipated response. He argues that the endlessly squandered resources of a runaway arms race will buy neither nation the security it seeks, and in our case, at least, could better be used to ameliorate threats to our society arising from problems at home. Rathjens' remedy? An arms freeze, and negotiations now, while our strategic posture is stronger than it is likely to remain should the arms race continue, and while the Russians may be willing to talk seriously for the first time from a position that approaches parity with us, rather than from a sense of inferiority that may have kept them from the conference table until now."
"Like Rathjens, Brennan is for negotiating with the Russians. Beyond that, their disagreements are basic. Brennan thinks that the Safeguard system, which he is in favor of seeing deployed, is insufficiently substantial. He favors the deployment of considerably more massive defensive systems that, unlike Safeguard, would be designed to save lives instead of the retaliatory missiles that hold other human lives as hostages for our own. He thinks that both we and the Russians should deploy such massive, life-saving systems in preference to any further escalation of offensive forces by either side. It is in our common interest, he stresses, to limit damage on both sides should war occur-and war, he emphasizes, can indeed happen; we've just been lucky so far. Brennan thinks that ABM is a protective umbrella that we can well afford, and that the choice to be made in allocating our resources is not between defensive missile systems and other national priorities, but between such systems and offensive ones-a proposition he thinks the Russians would agree to, to judge from their historic preoccupation with defense over offense. His truly novel assertion, however, is that appropriate defensive systems might also provide the political-psychological umbrella under which the people of both nations could feel reasonably secure while negotiated reductions in offensive force levels were taking place."
"The development of modern integrated circuit techniques has added a new and important network element to the list of those usually considered by the filter designer-the distributed RC network. This article discusses the properties of such networks and shows how they can be combined with lumped passive elements and active elements to produce a class of distributed-lumped-active (DLA) networks. Such networks can be applied to a wide range of filter requirements and have many advantages. For example, DLA realizations usually require fewer components than comparable realizations using lumped elements. Because partial differential equations are required to model distributed components, many new techniques of analysis and synthesis must be used in the design of DLA networks. A discussion of these techniques, including many that may be implemented on the digital computer, is presented and examples of some typical DLA realizations are given."
"Advertisement."
"Engineers and scientists are responsible for the technical progress that has been made and they have expert knowledge of what can be done next. For this reason alone, they must take part in deciding public policy. However, the modern technical man has a further contribution to offer-the ability to understand the views of others, and to incorporate these views into the best possible group decisions. This article points out that this is an ethical concept that can be spelled out in an extension of the ECPD Canons of Ethics and puts forth for consideration three proposals for strengthening the Canons."
"The source of the mainstream of the development of radiotelegraphy is the work of Marconi, but many other experimenters took a hand very early, notably Russia's Popov; the exact priority later became the subject of much controversy."
"Resistivity decreases can be induced in Cr-SiO films by current pulses of short duration. Precision resistance measurements between pulses permit trimming of film resistors to 0.1 percent in less than one second, provided pulse power, duration, and frequency are adjusted properly. A trimmer system that contacts several resistors through multiple probes and controls the process through a paper-tape reader is described. Pulse trimming has been applied to film resistors ranging from pure Cr up to Cr-40 mole % SiO. After annealing at 400°C, additional resistance decreases of at least 20 percent are possible with all compositions containing SiO. The interval between 15 and 30 mole % SiO is most suitable because substantial resistance changes are obtained at pulse powers well below the limits at which resistors burn out."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"The system idea-solution of a complete problem in its full environment by systematic assembly and matching of parts to solve the whole problem in the context of the lifetime use of the system, considering all aspects-is one of the most important ideas of modern times. It has made possible the solution of complicated problems that previously could not be touched. However, there exists a rising tide of problems and general disgruntlement (expressed by many people) that indicates trouble. Therefore, the author speaks as an ``engineering critic'' (intended in the sense of a music critic: ``Are we turning in a good performance?'') and, contrary to the many who are taking the positive side of systems engineering, offers the negative side of the controversy."
"Today solid-state technology has improved to such a degree that very large IC chips are being made with yields up to 30 percent. This article highlights some of the main elements that determine whether LSIs can be manufactured in large quantities. The author claims that obtaining reasonable yields is readily achievable once the factors that stand out as deterrents to success are recognized. Previously developed manufacturing techniques are used for LSI production. In the future, however, lasers and the computer will be applied to enable engineers to produce components faster with greater reliability."
"As technology advances, the interactions between man and machine become more complex. A reliable three-dimensional man-machine interface could help alleviate some of the complexity; but an effective 3-D display has, so far, eluded technologists. Thus, we have been forced to make unnatural compromises when dealing with data that are essentially three-dimensional in nature. This article describes a system that may meet the autostereoscopic display requirements in many situations."
"In predicting the future of UHV transmission lines, the author has followed a twofold approach. First, a quantitative analysis is made of the characteristics of future UHV lines, as conceived in the light of present-day techniques. Second, new solutions considered particularly suitable for UHV lines are discussed. Two basic assumptions are made: (1) that the need to transmit ever-greater quantities of electric energy by overhead lines will continue and (2) that society will become increasingly concerned over esthetic considerations."
"One way of achieving fine-resolution terrain imagery using airborne, side-looking radar is to boost frequency; another is to decrease along-track tracking. Neither is attractive. But they would have had to do were it not for coherent wave radar-upon which synthetic-aperture radar is premised. Using coherent radar, resolution can depend, not on the width of the beam, but on Doppler frequency shift. The azimuthal resolution of side-looking radar can therefore be of the same order of magnitude as that for range resolution. The key to converting the theoretical groundwork into a ``full-bodied'' system is an appropriate data-processing scheme. And the simplest scheme for working, processing, and deciphering the data is optical."
"Advertisement."
"When computers were yet in their infancy, some experts fancied them to be-much as they fancied humans were-structurable to develop intelligence on their own. It has since been learned that the mind is not developed with the spontaneity originally conjectured and that computers are not wont to ''bootstrap'' their way to higher levels of intelligence. The computer, if it is to adapt to new situations, must be given a ''helping human hand''. There are various ways of programming a computer to ''acclimate'': One is based on a logic of syntax; another uses semantics; still a third, dwelled upon here at length, is based on repeated human intervention and computer interplay."
"Rapidity and flexibility in photo-offset printing are synonymous with computer-driven CRTs. Yet, designing such a system has its problems. One big consideration is beam deflection linearity. Another is resolution. Reproduction accuracy resolved, design alternatives remain: Should the CRT be step-scanned or scanned continuously (as for television)? How much of the tube should be used? What should the absolute motion of the film be with respect to the generated motion of the characters? Naturally, there are tradeoffs."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Transistorized computer logic has made steady progress toward higher speeds by reducing the dimensions of circuits and devices. However, even though circuit and device speeds have increased by three orders of magnitude, voltage, current, and power levels have remained about the same. Power dissipation at increasingly higher current densities seems to be leading to difficult thermal problems that will eventually limit the progress of logical circuitry toward higher speeds. This article examines these physical problems and limits, and offers the most directly effective solution to the dilemma-lower operating temperature."
"As decribed in Part I, the collaboration of art and engineering in the creation of new art works has become a serious preoccupation of many modern artists, who are asking for the help of engineers. A number of organizations now exist whose aim is to facilitate the contact between artists and engineers and to help support them in their collaborative projects. You need not be a Renaissance Man, it is said, to apply for a match with an artist. It won't be all fun and games, although part of it will be, and you might even end up doing something so useless from an engineering point of view, and so right from another point of view, that you could begin wondering why engineering is practiced the way it is-i.e., you might get turned on. This article tells you a bit about what it was like for some others who have already tried, and calls on you to join the action."
"Energy balances necessitate energy requirements and sources to be expressed in commensurate units-usually heat. If these balances are complete, the flow of energy through the economy can be traced in such units, and the transformation functions of one form or source of energy to another can be specified. Thus, energy balances permit analysis of the entire energy sector on a whole, rather than on a commodity by commodity, basis. As such, they are capable of being used analytically to solve a number of problems that would otherwise be beyond comprehensive analysis. In this article, four such analytical uses are described and applied."
"Integrated circuits are being investigated for use in as many television circuits as feasible. In Japan, considerable work has been done by different groups within the TV industry to develop ICs that will permit cost reduction, increased reliability, and simplification of assembly-line operations. This article is a report on results of the concentrated efforts made by five major television set manufacturers to develop and produce black-and-white and color receivers, in collaboration with four universities, two institutes, and seven components manufacturers."
"Advertisement."
"Alternating magnetic fields lead to electrodynamic forces, which can be used industrially for stirring melts. These magnetic traveling fields, produced by straight or cylindrical stirrers, have become a well-established tool for the metallurgist. Since the size of melts is constantly growing, the stirrers are becoming increasingly valuable for achieving homogenization, temperature equalization, rapid and complete chemical reactions, and effective degassing."
"The international and domestic research programs described in this article may close the gap between dream and reality in weather control, especially if atmospheric and electrical scientists work together more closely than in the past. Can such cooperation also close the gap between research directed at realizing the dream and research needed to prevent a nightmare, that pollution may place the weather beyond anyone's control and create climatic instabilities that could lead to social chaos?"
"During the early part of the century various precepts for effective industrial management were set up that, although still basically valid in many respects, are being challenged, either in principle or in application. It is now appropriate to ask whether organizational change can any longer be evolutionary. This article points out the need for organization that anticipates change, not reacts to it. Specifically, it discusses the misuse of the engineer in the current scheme of things and suggests ways in which the situation can be remedied."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"The rate of technological innovation has been increasing dramatically in recent years, and so has the risk that a given technology may become obsolete before innovation is complete. Thus, tactical choices must be made on the basis of long-term goals. Probably nowhere is this problem more complex than in the move toward integrated electronics. By way of example, this article describes how the ``adaptive strategy'' approach has been employed on a company-wide scale as a means for guiding the Bell System's choice of materials and processes for integration."
"To many executives and practicing engineers, the turmoil in the universities has been a bewildering phenomenon. At the Fourth of March meeting at M.I.T. to protest the misuse of science and engineering (IEEE Spectrum, April 1969, p. 8), Professor George Wald of Harvard-notable for his undergraduate teaching as well as for the research on vision that brought him a Nobel Prize-addressed the question of what is worrying the young. He spoke without a text, but a tape preserved his eloquent indictment of the way things are. The standing ovation it evoked is testimony that his talk resonated strongly with the minds of the audience convoked by the Union of Concerned Scientists, an M.I.T. faculty group. It is printed here, with his permission, for the insight it gives into the ferment which, though less strong on engineering campuses than in some other places, is giving social relevance a strong place in the values and professional aspirations of the next generation of electrical engineers."
"In addition to reporting on prevailing trends in U.S. energy production and consumption, this article makes a number of statements concerning the outlook for the future. For example, the growth of underground distribution and control over the sulfur content of fuels and stack emissions may possibly halt or reverse the long-term downtrend in the cost of electricity. Although nuclear power is beginning to emerge as a competitor of fossil fuels, it is still too early to predict its eventual impact on the overall picture."
"For many years Britain's electrical and electronic engineering industry had been perplexed over the ``technician problem'': what acceptable title might be found for those senior engineering personnel to whom the generic term Technician was unacceptable, because of their training, experience and functions as engineers. This article surveys the current situation and traces the events leading to the setting up, in 1965, of the Institution of Electrical and Electronics Technician Engineers (IEETE), to meet the professional needs of the technician engineer. His distinct status is now firmly established: a responsible engineer in his own right, he has an identity, qualification and career of his own."
"The general considerations involved in the design of low-frequency phase-sensitive detectors are reviewed. These include the equivalence of multiplier- and gating-type detectors, of pre- and postdetection filtering with regard to both signal and noise, and of half- and full-wave detection. The various configurations of full-wave chopper circuits using similar or complementary bipolar transistors are compared from the point of view of offsets. A question that has not been previously discussed-the degree of prefiltering needed to avoid noise saturation-is analyzed. These principles are applied to the design of a fixed-frequency detector that is especially adapted to bridge-balancing applications."
"Advertisement."
"The importance of computers and simulation in management planning is reflected in this article describing a model of a hypothetical, investor-owned electric utility company. The model, which consists of three interrelated digital computer programs-an economic simulation, a cost simulation (based on power generation expenses), and an auxiliary nuclear fuel management program-is designed as a total corporate planning tool. All corporate activities, and certain environmental parameters, are represented by the economic simulation. The production cost simulation is designed to supply fuel cost information to the economic simulation and the fuel management program to supply nuclear fuel scheduling and cost data to both of the other programs. In the corporate model, management-both financial and operative-has a tool by which it is able to quickly assess the effects of one department's action upon another."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Is electronics extending itself to increase citizen opportunities for education, entertainment, and a better life? During World War II, electronics expanded to meet U.S. defense needs. Korea accelerated the advance of the technology even more. In all the unsettled years since, electronics technology has been facing new challenges. The Highlight Session at this year's IEEE International Convention and Exhibition served as a platform where some men with very broad horizons could speak, and others could listen and learn. Three of the speakers agreed that we are just on the threshold of the age of technical developments. The fourth maintained that the future of electronics and its relationship with society will hardly be determined by electronics at all."
"For some time the Fourier transform has served as a bridge between the time domain and the frequency domain. It is now possible to go back and forth between waveform and spectrum with enough speed and economy to create a whole new range of applications for this classic mathematical device. This article is intended as a primer on the fast Fourier transform, which has revolutionized the digital processing of waveforms. The reader's attention is especially directed to the IEEE Transactions on Audio and Electroacoustics for June 1969, a special issue devoted to the fast Fourier transform."
"The space age-started by the launch of Sputnik I- is now ten years old. Men have orbited the earth and moon, and spacecraft have landed on the moon and traveled to distant planets. Communications satellites make possible live television among continents and, with the aid of meteorological satellites, giant strides are being made in our understanding of weather. RCA has played a key role in many of these areas, but none more important than its role in the meteorological satellite program-Tiros. Throughout the space decade, RCA has been involved in this program, which provided the first important peaceful and beneficial use of outer space by the nations of the world with the implementation of the Tiros Operational System (TOS) in 1966. This article reviews the performance of the ten Tiros and nine ESSA satellites (part of TOS) orbited during this decade, and gives some insight into the improved TOS satellites that will be launched in the near future."
"Although high-speed, electrically powered surface and subsurface transportation will help to alleviate future traffic congestion in some localities, a majority of the public will probably continue to prefer the mobility, privacy, and freedom afforded by the automobile. Therefore, some form of automation for individual vehicles appears to be desirable-in fact, necessary- if complete highway chaos is to be avoided. The approach described in this article involves the concept of a dual-mode system, whereby the vehicle (which must be specially equipped) is manually controlled on nonautomated roads and automatically controlled on automated ones."
"Advertisement."
"No one is in favor of air pollution. However, it is not possible today to eliminate it; the best we can do is to lessen it. We must balance what we would like against what it will cost. To the economist this suggests the cost-benefit approach by which the costs of a proposed decision are added up, a value is computed for the benefits, and if the latter exceeds the former there is economic justification. With this in mind the author discusses the various developments in the area of pollution abatement. For the energy technology of the future these developments point to two general paths, the first leading to an 'electric economy' and the second to a 'gas economy.'"
"A conceptual frame of reference for viewing the various functions of an air pollution control agency in a metropolitan area is the conventional feedback-control diagram. A series of such diagrams is presented and discussed, to indicate a possible sequence of developmental stages through which an integrated system may evolve."
"Printed circuit taping methods are used to make thick-film master patterns. Usually, the patterns are laid out at ten times normal size and photographically reduced to actual circuit size. The screen patterns are then made using commercially available indirect emulsion material. A home movie light and a photographic print frame process the emulsion instead of a carbon arc and a vacuum frame. These simple techniques result in quick turnaround time and minimum cost to produce development circuits."
"Nature photography was almost the first application of the electronic flash system of lighting when it became commonly available.1 Although these first units used paper capacitors charged to high voltages and discharging at microsecond rates, later ``strobes'' employed lower-voltage capacitors and operated at longer flash durations. Hence, today's conventional strobe is not suitable for the rapidly moving subjects of nature photography. This article describes a development in strobe equipment that incorporates new and improved design to create flash units of not only lighter weight, but with exposure times of less than 100 microseconds."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"The total output of Soviet electric stations at the beginning of 1968 was 135 million kW; by 1970 it is expected to reach 180 million kW. There are ten interconnected power systems in the country. The European Power Grid unites six of the systems, with a total power output of 68.5 million kW and covering a territory of 6 million km2 with a population of 160 million. Plans for the period to 1980 call for the use of higher voltages; 1200 kV for ac and up to ± 1100 kV for dc transmission."
"The determinant of the salary that a man is paid for his services can involve many factors, both naturally and artificially evolved. The evaluation of a man's monetary value is particularly complex in the case of technical professionals whose product cannot easily be judged by clear-cut measures such as amount of sales made or runs batted in. In this article, data from a group of job applications from almost 30 establishments and from the results of a random sampling of faculties of more than 500 colleges and universities are analyzed. As a result, a number of biographical characteristics are identified that, on the average, affect salary levels of such professionals. In addition, a method is demonstrated for weighting the factors involved and presenting the results in a more comprehensive manner than that employed in existing salary surveys."
"It is no exaggeration that a kid on roller skates can propel himself crosstown, from the East River to the North River, on any of Manhattan's midtown streets in considerably less time than that required by a motorist. And we all have had the frustrating experience of spending more time in a bus between an airport and center city than in making the actual flight of 500 km or more. About five years ago, Boston, Mass., got a foretaste of what complete vehicular strangulation can be like when the granddaddy of traffic jams immobilized all surface transportation downtown for more than three hours. But the future may not be completely bleak: thanks to the digital computer, sensor inputs-and a lot of software synthesis-traffic intersections can be placed under machine control to break up the traffic bottlenecks that have become one of the major blights of our cities."
"Commercial-frequency currents of a few milliamperes flowing through the body will cause muscular contractions, resulting in the inability of the victim to release his grasp on a live conductor. Values of ``let-go'' current are very important criteria in the establishment of safe-current requirements. Since ventricular fibrillation, a condition in which circulation is arrested, is probably the most common cause of death from electric shock, studies of minimum fibrillating currents under various conditions are also significant. This article discusses investigations of both let-go and fibrillating current and presents some of the experimental data that have been obtained to date."
"The present scientific and technical world is one of complexity, magnitude, and rapid growth. In the face of such soaring progress, one subject has grown increasingly important and yet has remained somewhat of a mystery to people in the scientific and engineering community- that of ``trade secrets.'' Although, as a general rule, these people have some working knowledge and familiarity with the patent laws, there is nevertheless an overall lack of understanding regarding the rights, obligations, and liabilities arising from the laws as applied to trade secrets. With the fluidity of the employment market and the rise in litigation concerning this area, it is therefore imperative that members of the community gain an understanding of these concepts. This article is intended to bridge some of the gap between trade secrets and the technical man."
"A hybrid tantalum thin-film and beam-lead silicon device will be incorporated in the Bell System's Touch-Tone telephones of the future. This RC multifrequency audio oscillator will replace the LC device presently used in the Touch-Tone keyboards. The tuning process for the RC device requires that the tantalum thin-film resistors be custom adjusted to calculated values; and a tuning system driven by a small process-control computer has been designed to fulfill this function."
"Advertisement."
"The Pacific Northwest-Southwest Intertie is the largest single electric transmission development project ever undertaken in the United States. It will connect directly or indirectly the major systems of the federal government and public and private electrical systems in 11 western states, promoting a maximum of electrical efficiency. The benefits to these areas of the United States, and to the rest of the nation, will be extensive: over a 50-year pay-out period the total estimated benefits amount to $2.6 billion, with a benefit-to-cost ratio of 2.5 to 1."
"This article describes a monolithic integrated-circuit voltage regulator for use in medium-power applications in the achievement of ``local'' or ``on-card'' regulation. Included are design features, an explanation of circuit's operation, a dc analysis, regulation analysis, performance characteristics, design rules and considerations, and selected applications."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of four Russian, one Ukrainian, one Chinese, and two Japanese journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Self-scanned image sensors are making possible new types of television cameras and imaging devices based entirely upon solid-state components. Research on integrated image sensors has followed two experimental approaches: monolithic silicon and thin-film photoconductors. This article reviews the operation of the most common types of self-scanned sensors, indicating their relative advantages and disadvantages. Two new developments are a 256 × 256 element photoconductive sensor with integrated thin-film scanning decoders and a novel silicon photodiode sensor that may permit considerable reduction in element spacings."
"Modern digital computers, in conjunction with microfilm plotters, are capable of generating a wide variety of images. Beyond the mere plotting of curves, graphs, and labels, special programming techniques can produce halftone renditions of pictorial material with wide applications in optical signal processing and data portrayal. Other possibilities include the composition of images from alphanumeric characters, the generation of moiré patterns, and the encryption of images with subsequent recovery by optical means using computer-generated ``keys.'' More sophisticated techniques allow the combining in a single optical display of different kinds of information in hitherto unforeseen ways."
"This article describes an inductorless near-harmonic voltage-controlled oscillator circuit that utilizes a compensated Wien-bridge topology with a voltage-controlled Miller integrator as the tuning element. Suitable for monolithic integrated realization, the VCO offers a two-to-one control range for frequencies up to 10 MHz, with less than a 1-dB amplitude variation and less than a ten percent total harmonic distortion over the entire control range."
"Most of today's development work in fuel cells is geared to the specific adaptation of these energy sources to user requirements. For powering lightweight portable equipment, the fuel cell-battery hybrid system has been found to be extremely useful and versatile. A minimum number of fuel cell and battery components can service a wide range of equipment at low development costs."
"Advertisement."
"The signal-to-noise ratio in a given equivalent bandwidth must be maintained above a minimum value during a deep-space mission in order to provide predictable performance, and in order to maintain effective telemetry communications with spacecraft at interplanetary distances it is necessary for earth stations to use maximum antenna gain. One solution is to extend telecommand range by reducing system noise temperature in the spacecraft receiver and reducing the bandwidth of the receiver's phase-lock loop. Low-noise preamplifiers have not yet been applied in planetary spacecraft in order to maintain simplicity and reliability. An answer to the problem seems to be high-power transmitters (earth-based) with outputs in the 1000-GW range."
"Numerous considerations, chiefly related to cost, contribute to the growth pattern of electric generation. Although water reactors will undoubtedly dominate U.S. nuclear expansion into the 1980s, the high-gain fast breeder holds the greatest economic advantage over the long term. The factors leading to this conclusion are presented and analyzed here, and some predictions are made for the 20-year period beginning in 1986."
"This article points out the need for new instrumental methods to cope with the present requirements of material and structure analysis and characterization of microminiaturized circuits. Primarily, it describes briefly a few principal instruments and techniques utilized in such analysis and characterization, and it discusses some materials used in microminiaturized semiconductor assemblies, especially silicon and the contact metallurgy, and methods for obtaining information concerning its structure and chemistry. Since the entire gamut of metallographic and chemical techniques cannot be covered here, the article is limited to the X-ray and electron optics methods used in semiconductor and interconnection studies."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"These pages list the exhibitors at the IEEE Exhibition with a brief description of what each exhibitor is showing, and a list of company personnel manning the booth. In each listing the booth number is given. Four-digit booth numbers indicate that the exhibitor is located on one of the four main floors in the New York Coliseum. The first digit of the number indicates the floor, the letter digit indicates the aisle or section (aisle numbers generally increase from south to north). The exhibition is divided into sections of related products, to help you in finding the products of your primary interest as easily as possible."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Ethereal, evanescent, elusive-these are adjectives a poet might use to describe the fragile stuff of clouds. They are accurate, and evocative, but still another adjective-electrified-may prove to be more important in the years immediately ahead. Workers in the fields of atmospheric electricity and cloud physics have accumulated sufficient evidence to suggest that electric fields, forces, and charges in the earth's lower atmosphere play a critical role-perhaps the critical role-in the development and behavior of clouds that produce precipitation. This in turn suggests that manipulation of the electrical properties of clouds may someday provide the long-sought key to modification of the weather by man."
"The power companies of the New England states, where fossil-fuel cost is high, have determined that low-variable-cost nuclear generation is desirable for this region. The construction of pumped-storage hydro plants, favored by the topography of the area, will offset the relatively high fixed costs of nuclear plants by maximizing the capacity-use factor of the nuclear facilities and thereby minimizing the total cost per unit of energy output. This combination provides efficient base load, economical peaking capacity, and effective spinning reserve, along with many recreational and other social benefits."
"Precision piezoelectric quartz resonators have evolved during a half century of research, development, and engineering. It is an evolution that started with rudimentary concepts and a precision of one part in a thousand, and emerged today with a precision of a few parts in 1012. Although there have been significant steps forward through single contributions, the evolution has been a continuous improvement with an order of magnitude achieved every five to seven years. Not that anyone was particularly aware of these milestones, but, viewed in total, this improvement of a billion to one must stand as one of the truly amazing developments of this electronic age."
"Many artists today, especially those in the younger generation, are looking to modern technology as a new medium in which to delve, and they are looking, as well, for engineers to assist them and to collaborate with them on their works. This two-part article describes certain aspects of the art-and-technology movement, and speculates on some of its possible consequences. Part I traces the roots of current artistic interest in technology and describes modes of collaboration. Part II will describe some of the experiences of those who have already engaged in collaborative projects, discuss organizations that have been formed to facilitate the collaborative process, and ask you to consider the possibility of jumping in yourself or lending your organization's support."
"Before radiotelegraphy could become a reality, it had to he thought of; a workable detector of electromagnetic waves had to be discovered; and the results obtained by Hertz had to be disseminated to a wider audience. In earlier installments in this series, we saw how the work of Hertz and his predecessors had led an electrical engineer to ask whether waves could not be used for the transmission of power or of telephone messages. That suggestion had been made in private in 1889, but other, better-founded proposals began to find their way into public print almost immediately. "
"Advertisement."
"A recently developed sampling-oscilloscope system consists of some 20 different kinds of units-some plug-ins, some self-contained instruments-which can be used together in literally hundreds of functional configurations. However, rather than giving detailed descriptions of these units, this article approaches the subject by discussing five specific applications in which this measurement system offers a particular advantage."
"Few mathematical operations are more important to the engineer than convolution and transform analysis. In this article, the operation of convolution is explored-starting with discrete rather than continuous convolution because of the relative ease of comprehension involved. With this foundation, the study is extended to continuous convolution. A proof of the convolution theorem will show that convolution and transform analysis are closely related. Of much more interest, however, is an intuitive explanation of why convolution and transform analysis techniques lead to exactly the same solution of a given problem. Perhaps the two most important applications of convolution deal with the analysis of linear systems and the sums of independent random variables-the latter problem being used to introduce discrete convolution."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Silicon-gate technology provides an advantageous approach for implementing large-scale integrated arrays of field-effect transistors. Its advantages-principally resulting from the low threshold voltage and the self-aligned gate structure buried under an insulator-ease the problem of interfacing these circuits to bipolar integrated circuits and increase both their performance and functional density, making MOS integrated circuits easier and more economical to use. This article reviews recent progress with this technology and shows its application to the construction of complex digital functions as illustrated by a memory circuit."
"Many of man's greatest technological achievements were greeted with disdain, if not ridiculed, at the time of their inception. Today there are many critics of our space program-the noted British historian Arnold Toynbee among them-who believe that space exploration represents a technological dead end, an enormous waste of money, and a force that promotes increased nationalism. This article was written as a challenge to these and other charges that have been leveled at space exploration in general and the U.S. space program in particular."
"To realize full benefit from a radar, the analyzed echoes must be strong and sharp. Two options are available: Either the transmitted burst must be an intense, short pulse (often not a propitious arrangement) or the onus can be put on the receiver to process the echo into something more than it appears to be. One method for ``upgrading'' the received signal beyond a feeble echo from a not-too-powerful transmitted beam is acoustooptical processing, in which the reflected radar beam is converted to an acoustic wave that is used to modulate a light source. Then with the appropriate operation on the modulated light, the radar echo input is correlated against an optical filter. Of the two acoustooptic correlator classes described here, one works well below 150 MHz and the other is appropriate for frequencies above 150 MHz."
"This article focuses on the conversion and control of large blocks of electric energy by solid-state power devices such as silicon rectifier diodes and thyristors. Power conversion fulfills the important requirement of delivering a desired type of electric energy when the available form is unsuitable. Examples include the energization of dc machines, dc fields, and batteries when the available source is single-phase or polyphase alternating current. Another example relates to variable-speed drives for Induction and synchronous motors when the power source is either dc or fixed-frequency ac. Power control is concerned with varying the level of power delivered to a load, as in on-off switching, or varying the output voltage of a rectifier."
"The successful alliance of art and technology is hardly a novel concept; it has been practiced for centuries, from antiquity, through the Renaissance, to the present day. Historically, the collaborative efforts of artists, artisans, engineers, and builders have been predicated upon the exacting criteria of the respective trades and professions: the integrity of achievement that demands order, logic, and reason in planning and execution, plus the responsible freedom of expression that is regulated by self-discipline-rather than by license-for the betterment of society and the progress of civilization and culture. Much recent copy has been devoted in our literature to some far-out and anarchic present-day trends in the collaboration of artists and engineers, with the apologia that it is ``something that is really going on.'' But one might logically observe that robbery, rape, and mayhem are also things that are really going on!"
"Advertisement."
"It is sometimes difficult to decide between thick-film and thin-film technologies in the fabrication of hybrid integrated circuits consisting of a ceramic substrate with deposited passive components and attached active devices. In the case of thick films, the deposited pattern of conductors, resistors, capacitors, and inductors is applied to the substrate by screen-printing and firing special conductive, resistive, or dielectric pastes. Thin-film layers, on the other hand, are deposited in vacuum by evaporation or cathode-sputtering of appropriate source materials. This article discusses the advantages and disadvantages of both technologies as well as their application ranges."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"This article describes how a device developed by engineers for engineering applications - the ultrasonic transducer - was slowly converted to medical research and application. Like the X ray, ultrasonics can penetrate the living body, and can be used for studying inner structures, with the advantage that it avoids the hazards of X radiation. The development of appropriate ultrasonic systems, many of whose problems parallel those encountered in early radiology, has brought ultrasonics to the point where it can be used almost routinely in the study of conditions in the eye, brain, heart, and abdomen."
"Ten years have passed since a team of engineers at Harry Diamond Laboratories had the idea of using fluid-flow phenomenons for control applications, starting a boom in fluidic technology. By creating the fluid amplifier, which amplifies an air signal rather than an electric signal but with otherwise similar characteristics, they started an industry that today has a market volume of several million dollars and is still on the rise. The purpose of this article is to describe the present state of the art and future prospects for fluidics. Without pretending to be complete, an understanding is given of where fluidic elements are used, what their advantages and disadvantages are, and the requirements for building fluidic control systems. Fluid phenomenons that represent the basis for fluid amplifier operation are briefly described, and the characteristics of fluid amplifiers are discussed. Although fluid amplifiers are used for both analog and digital applications, this article will be limited to digital systems, concluding with some general remarks that apply to both."
"Logarithmic converters have an important place in signal processing and the bipolar transistor can be an invaluable element for generating such functions. As with most any design, there are tradeoffs. With logarithmic converters composed of bipolar transistors, response time must be weighted against dynamic range. Several basic circuits for log and antilog generators, with differently weighted operating characteristics, are analyzed and, applications are described."
"Advertisement."
"The problem of polluting our skies extends beyond man's senses; our ether is becoming ensnarled with electromagnetic emanations. The situation has become critical and, if our technology is not to mire in a morass of radio signals, something will have to be done to quiet the confusion. Some systems by nature of their operation must pick their inputs from the airwaves. But there are a host of others that can do just as well-if not better - linked directly to a transmitter. Thus, many receivers now operating, and envisaged for future operation, will be phased to cable operation."
"Communication theory was founded on the system of sine-cosine functions. A more general theory has become known more recently; it replaces the sine-cosine functions by other systems of orthogonal functions, and the concept of frequency by that of sequency. Of these systems, the Walsh functions are of great practical interest since they lead to equipment that is easily implemented by semiconductor technology. Filters, multiplexing equipment, and a voice analyzer/synthesizer have been built successfully for Walsh functions. Some interesting applications of electromagnetic Walsh waves have been found theoretically."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In response to the rapidly increasing demand for communication facilities, microwave relay systems have played an important role in Japan's telecommunications network because of their economy and capability for broadband transmission. Their progress has been marked during the past 20 years and this development has been supported by advances in such diverse fields as radio propagation, antennas, microwave and electronic circuitry, electron devices, and, particularly, in solid-state techniques. This article reviews the history of microwave relay systems and describes the past and expected future contributions of the solid-state technology to these systems."
"The statistical survey of the electronics industry in the United States, published annually by the Electronic Industries Association, for several years has shown a trend of importance to all IEEE members whose employment and job assignments depend on the markets for electronic systems, equipment, and components. That trend is a decrease in the year-to-year growth of factory sales in two major components of the industry: products sold to the government and to the consuming public. The other major component, sales of industrial products, has shared this trend of arrested growth, but there is an encouraging turnaround that is evident in the projected figures for 1969. Although product sales are by no means the only significant economic factor in these industries, this indicator has a fundamental influence on future product design and development. The statistics reviewed in this article are taken by permission from the recently published ``EIA Yearbook - 1969.'' This 94-page document1 contains detailed data on sales of individual product lines, funding, employment, and related industry statistics. It is recommended highly to IEEE members, in the U.S. and elsewhere, who have an interest in the economic underpinning of our profession."
"Everyone who is exposed to the realities of daily life in the U.S. is aware of the fact that dissenting students are not hesitating to make their dissatisfaction with the establishment known, and, in fact, are taking direct action to implement their various causes. In a number of instances their target has been defense-oriented research on the campus; an example of this was the pressure in recent months to achieve control of research programs at SRI. As this article points out, the militants need not be victorious-their actions in themselves are enough to affect the climate within which the researcher must work. Furthermore, as these ``new'' students leave the university to enter industry, they take their attitudes with them. As a result, a whole new philosophy of management is becoming necessary."
"This article presents, in a simplified manner, a design method for active filters intended for those who are not filter specialists. By following the described five-step approach, a circuit designer who has some knowledge of passive filters will (without having to learn a whole new technology) be able to design active filters just as easily as he now handles conventional passive filters. Starting with the filter specification, it is shown sequentially how to realize a network that meets the prescribed requirements. Configurations and element values are given for the low-pass (LP), bandpass (BP), high-pass (HP), all-pass (AP), and band-elimination (BE), second-order active filter building blocks."
"Knowledge of the values, traditions, and habits that influence personal behavior can be a vital bridge between cultures. The IEEEߝPopov Society exchange delegations that have crossed the Atlantic Ocean in both directions since 1957 have been invaluable for increasing the exchange of such knowledge. Much has been published about the technical facets of this exchange, but less has been written about the more personal matters. This article considers the personal budget of the Soviet engineer: How much does he earn? How will his salary change with responsibility, education, and age? How can he augment this salary? What will his wife contribute to the family coffers? Where will the money go? How does his budget compare with that of his Western peers? Answers to these questions give some clue to the societal values and pressures in the U.S.S.R., help erase some of the mysteries about Soviet life, and contribute to better mutual understanding. United States information and statistics are used as a point of Western reference."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry. "
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industry."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"No one company has resources that are sufficient to permit it to counter all potential threats or to explore all available opportunities resulting from today's technology explosion. Accordingly, each company must become increasingly selective in its allocation of those resources committed toward insuring its future. This article describes the particular experience of TRW Inc. with technological forecasting-one of several techniques that a company may use in improving its selectivity."
"The President's Task Force on Communications Policy, with the financial support and technical cooperation of the Office of Law Enforcement Assistance, U.S. Department of Justice, retained the services of the Kelly Scientific Corporation to investigate and evaluate the problems of mobile-radio communications congestion among users of the Public Safety Radio Service. The contractual effort covered a period of approximately 20 weeks, ending on June 28, 1968. The results of the investigation are reported in this article; they include important considerations for application to such timely problems as riot control and other civil disturbances."
"The primary purpose of this article is to present a unified, comprehensive survey of accomplishments in the field of network synthesis for linear, lumped, and finite networks from 1965 through early 1968.* Because of the large number of contributions made during this period, only a sampling of the many significant works is presented here, with much of the material in the form of results. It is the author's hope that the extensive list of references included will be useful in providing the additional information necessary."
"It is generally agreed that major changes are necessary in engineering education, mainly for three reasons. First, the role of the engineer is changing markedly. Second, advances in technology are altering educational methods. Third, today's students are seeking active roles in the operation of the university. What is needed is a program incorporating experimentation, flexibility, and feedback, such as an honors program of the type now functioning at the University of Illinois. The Illinois program, which is described in this article, by definition exists for honor students. However, it has proved to be a stimulus for change in the entire undergraduate program of the college."
"The success of space-age endeavors depends greatly upon the materials used to construct a certain module, part, or subsystem, and the interaction between these materials and their immediate environment. A metal, for example, must retain its physical integrity in shape, ductility, and tensile strength over stringent stress and temperature ranges; it must be able to withstand proximity with other materials, metallic and nonmetallic, while maintaining chemical stability. Nonmetallic materials must be compounded to prevent such reactions as outgassing or decomposition at high altitudes; others, such as ablative ceramics, must disintegrate in a certain manner. In short, the demand for more specialized, more durable substances has created a new materials technology."
"Advertisement."
"Ruggedness, wide capacitance range, high volumetric efficiency, and relatively attractive cost have been the main reasons for the popularity of ceramic chip capacitors. Continuing improvements in most of these categories promise to keep the ceramic chip in its present position of prominence. This article considers multilayer, single-layer, and screened-on configurations. In addition, relationships between size, capacitance, and cost are covered for three common ceramic formulations (NPO, W5R, and Z5U)."
"Prior to World War II, Japanese technology was concentrated mainly on military production. However, since the end of the war, the country's industries, particularly the electronics industry, have grown rapidly as the result of a concerted effort to achieve a viable postwar economy. And an important contribution to this growth has been the adoption of modern management and control technologies developed mainly in the United States."
"The Grand Coulee third power plant is a major feature of the Columbia Basin Project, sponsored by the U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Reclamation. The planning and design of the facilities in this challenging undertaking are currently under way. It is anticipated that a number of ``firsts'' and records will be achieved in its construction, and that it will ultimately be the largest power plant in the world. This article describes the status of the electrical designs for the proposed 7200-MW Grand Coulee third power plant."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement."
"Provides an advanced view of the technical articles and features to be presented in a future issue."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1969."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Several measures of system reliability that are applicable to a mission-oriented or time-dependent system are defined: 1) the probability that the system is in a given state at the end of a given mission phase; 2) the probability density function of the random variable time spent in a state, given that the system has just transited into that state; 3) the probability of mission success. Equations for 1)-3) are derived, and an application of the formulas performed for the Naval Air Development Center, Johnsville, Pa., is discussed."
"Elements of the theory of diffusion processes are utilized to develop methods for predicting the reliability and the moments of the time to first failure of systems that have nonconstant failure rates and exhibit degradation failure. Specifically, systems characterizable by k independent parameters are considered, each of which independently exhibits degradation failure. The methods presented for obtaining a probabilistic description of such systems rest on the assumption that the time behavior of each of the system parameters can be characterized by a Brownian process (a special type of diffusion process). The methods then allow predictions of reliability and the moments of the time to first failure to be made from data taken early in life tests. In particular, the first moment is the mean time to first failure of the system."
"Exact lower confidence limits are established for the availability ratio A where A = μy/(μy + μx) and μy is the mean time between failures and μx is the mean time to repair. It is assumed that the time between failures has an exponential distribution while the time to repair is log-normally distributed, with known variance. A test of the hypothesis A = Ao is also developed and power curves are included. Some results on the comparison of confidence intervals when the time to repair is assumed to be exponentially distributed are given."
"A repair system is analyzed that has three kinds of components, each with a different repair priority. Type 1 is essential to system operation and has the highest priority of repair; there is only one such component. Type 2 is nonessential (its failure degrades the system) and has an intermediate priority of repair. Type 3 is similar to type 2 except that it has the lowest priority of repair. There are many types 2 and 3 components. The differential equations for system state probabilities are solved by Laplace transforms, but only in implicit form."
"Certain reliability problems of systems of dissimilar units with repair are described. The mean time to system failure is based on the relation of mean first passage times between states of the system. The failure-time distribution is obtained from an integral equation of the renewal type. The two approaches can be also applied to a system of dissimilar units under an overload. Finally, it is shown that these results include many earlier results as special cases."
"The method most often suggested for determining the reliability of a system is to construct a reliability network, enumerate from the network all mutually exclusive working states of the system, calculate the probability of occurrence of each working state, and sum these probabilities. For a complex system this is not a practical method for there is a very large number of working states. Esary and Proschan suggest a lower bound approximation to reliability that requires the enumeration of a much smaller set of system states. These states are called minimal cuts. An algorithm is presented to determine the set of minimal cuts and thus calculate a lower bound to system reliability. The algorithm is intended for digital-computer implementation and computational times are provided."
"An analysis is presented of the effect of partial failure modes on the calculation of an optimum amount of redundancy. (Partial failure modes are modes that are catastrophic to the part but not to the system.) The analysis is limited to systems that are not repaired, whose performance can be measured with a one-dimensional capacity index, and that are composed of parts that fail in only one mode. The problem is formulated in terms of loss coefficients and state probabilities and a model is given to organize computation of the state probabilities. The analysis is incorporated into a redundancy optimization program so that, for the first time, optimal redundancy can be calculated for systems with partial failure modes. This program is applied to an example system and the results are explained. It is shown that the partial failure mode analysis will always yield a lower expected loss, will thus require less redundancy, and hence will yield a lower initial system cost than the equivalent total failure-mode analysis."
"Previously, the Weibull process with an unknown scale parameter was examined as a model for Bayesian decision making. The analysis is extended by treating both the shape and scale parameters as unknown. It is not possible to find a family of continuous joint prior distributions on the two parameters that is closed under sampling, so a family of prior distributions is used that places continuous distributions on the scale parameter and discrete distributions on the shape parameter. Prior and posterior analyses are examined and seen to be no more difficult than for the case in which only the scale parameter is treated as unknown, but preposterior analysis and determination of optimal sampling plans are considerably more complicated in this case. To illustrate the use of the present model, an example is presented in which it is necessary to make probability statements about the mean life and reliability of a long-life component both before and after life testing."
"Some Bayes estimates are obtained of an index of performance of a system that alternates between two states, up or down, in accordance with a Markov process. The index considered is long-run availability, which measures the probability that the system will be up when needed. For the purpose of obtaining these estimates, two types of observations are considered: those that reveal only the state of system at isolated time points and those that continuously record the duration of the up and down times of the system."
"The Weibull distribution, frequently employed to assign probabilities to the lifetimes of components and systems operating under stress, is habitually characterized by a pair of positive parameters, termed the scale and shape parameters. Two fundamental reparameterizations of the Weibull probability density function are proposed. The first reparameterization replaces the shape parameter by its inverse, the resulting positive parameter thereafter termed the shaping parameter. This permits a more facile exposition of the properties of parameter estimates, derived in the event that a complete random sample from the Weibull distribution is available. The characteristics of these parameter estimation techniques are then reviewed and compared, and their variances and distributional properties are delineated whenever possible. A second reparameterization extends the parameter space so as to include nonpositive values of the shape parameter. This extension augments the utility and applicability of the Weibull distribution without requiring radical alteration of the standard parameter estimation procedures applicable to the original parameter space."
"A way of solving for the probabilities of various states of a redundant system with three components is shown. The failure rate of each component is a constant but the repair function is arbitrary. The method of solving the integral equations is by using Laplace-Stieltjes transforms."
"For a complex system it is often difficult to determine a schedule for maintenance or verification that is neither needlessly frequent nor dangerously infrequent. A technique is discussed for using the system itself to derive the maintenance schedule that yields a given mean time between failures. The technique does not require calculation of the MTBF, but allows adaptive convergence to the desired result. Convergence is guaranteed for reasonable assumptions."
"It is shown that in certain hardware programs, the product reliability can be explicitly related to the efficiency of manufacturing operations, in terms of fraction of operations correct out of total carried out, to the efficiency of inspection operations, as a fraction of erroneous manufacturing operations, and related implicitly to the design margins for the product. Expressions are derived that relate these parameters to both product reliability and product acceptance rate. A method is suggested for measuring and inspection efficiency so that an upper limit to product reliability can be derived from product-acceptance data."
"The problem of a prediction interval for the number of failures of a system during a future time period knowing the failures observed during a time interval in the past is considered. It is assumed that the failures follow a Poisson process. Now, if the failures in both time intervals were known, they could be used to test the hypothesis that the two observations were generated by the same Poisson law. By appropriately inverting the inequalities for the critical region of the above test, it is possible to generate the prediction limits for the number of failures in one time interval by observing the failures in the other time interval, provided both observations are subject to the same Poisson law."
"The general theory of stochastic point processes is applied to construct the reliability function for some stress-strength models."
"The theorem that mean life is the integral of the reliability is improperly proved in the literature. It is necessary to take into account some restrictions on the time behavior of the reliability. It is sufficient that the mean life be bounded."
"Electrical opens and mechanical fracture have been reported as two distinct failure modes in gold-aluminum thermocompression ball bonds. It is found that the thickness of the aluminum film to which the gold wires are bonded and the temperature at which the bonds are held during aging determine which failure mode will be observed. The electrical failure mode predominates when bonds made to aluminum films 5000Å or more in thickness are aged at temperatures above 200°C but at 200°C both failure modes are observed. Mechanical fracture is expected to be the dominant failure mode when ball bonds to these 5000-10000-Å films are aged at temperatures below 200°C. Bonds to thinner aluminum films (500-3000 Å) exhibited only the electrical failure mode."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The literature on the theoretical aspects of redundancy in digital computers is extensive providing a sound basis for highly reliable design. This paper describes the design problems, the reliability prediction, the field performance, and the future application of redundancy techniques to digital systems. Triple modular redundancy (TMR) is described using the logic of the Launch Vehicle Digital Computer utilized in the uprated Saturn I and the Saturn V vehicles. The self-correcting memory of this computer is described along with the associated design problems and the design verification based on production experience. Consideration is given to system design problems involved with TMR logic. A Monte Carlo technique for predicting computer reliability is considered in a design engineering rather than programmer approach. The unique means of indicating single-channel malfunctions, while continuing to mask these single-channel malfunctions with respect to system operation, is introduced. The result of field operation are given and compared with predicted reliability. Quad redundancy at the component part level is described using the circuitry of the primary processor and data storage (PPDS) for NASA's Orbital Astronomical Observatory. The process of arriving at a quad redundancy implementation is considered in light of the constraints of cost, schedule, and an initial reliability requirement of 95 percent for a year's operation in space. The circuit and system design problems associated with quad redundancy such as impedance and part parameter variations, power consumption, fan out limitations, and testing restrictions are indicated. The results of field operation are given and compared with predicted reliability."
"A computer program is described which implements a previously suggested procedure for isolating faults in conventional linear systems. The technique is based on the analysis of network function responses at critically chosen test frequencies applied to the normal input-output terminals of the circuit under test. The feasibility of the diagnosis technique is discussed in terms of the experience with the computer program and some empirical studies which have been conducted. Example circuits are included which have been processed by the computer program. Problem areas related to both the basic theory of the technique and the computational limitations of implementation are defined. Solutions are proposed for some of these problems; others are merely defined for study by the circuit theorists."
"This paper contains a description of a method which can be used to select redundant threshold logic units on the basis of system considerations rather than the duplication of existing units. This mathematical technique consists of iteratively selecting redundant threshold logic units for the first layer of a two-layer threshold logic network. Use of the technique is illustrated in the solution of simple problems, and it is shown that fewer units are required for single error correction than would be needed if existing units were duplicated."
"This paper develops equations for predicting the reliability of a special class of redundant systems. Applicable systems include those which operate in a standby mode for a long period of time in anticipation of participation in a single mission. Manual repair is allowed in the standby mode but not in the mission mode. The analysis is also applicable to the single-mission case alone (no standby), where the reliability in this case is evaluated as a function of the reliability state at the start of the mission. The development employs the traditional approach using the concept of failure states and the attendant birth-and-death equations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The development of the beam-lead sealed-junction (BLSJ) technology (beam-lead contact metals-silicon nitride passivation) included many experiments to study the effects of various ionic contaminants on silicon transistor stability. Stress aging was performed on standard n-p-n silicon transistors (aluminum contacts and silicon dioxide protection) under various conditions of temperature, bias, contamination, and ambient. These experiments showed the following results. 1) Alkali ions and copper in a reducing ambient are detrimental to the devices. 2) A hydrogen ambient accelerates the effect of alkali ions on the transistor degradation. 3) The degradation is approximately a linear function of the reverse bias and the contamination level from 4 to 400 Å of sodium chloride. 4) Anions have only a secondary effect on the migration of alkali ions in the oxide. The BLSJ technology was developed to protect unencapsulated silicon devices from the degradation seen on standard transistors during the preceding experiments. Results have shown that the median time to failure of sodium-contaminated BLSJ transistors aged in air at 300°C is higher than that for standard silicon transistors aged under identical conditions."
"One means to assure high reliability in digital electronic equipment is to incorporate multiple-line redundancy in its design. This type of redundancy has been described frequently in the literature. This paper treats the problem of determining the design of a multiple-line redundant network which maximizes the reliability of the network. There is an extremely large number of feasible designs for moderately sized networks, and no computationally practical method exists for determining the optimum design. To provide a practical solution for this problem an algorithm is described which generates a small subset of all feasible designs. A dynamic programming algorithm then selects the best from the reduced set. Computational results show that the design discovered by these techniques, in most instances, has a reliability very close to that of the optimum, and that the time for the computation increases approximately as the fourth power of the number of logical elements in the network."
"A new and more general limit theorem is proposed in place of the exponential limit theorem of Drenick. First it is shown that as time goes to zero, the hazard rate can be made to approach an almost arbitrary function. Next it is pointed out that in the exponential limit theorem (and others) the only practical and necessary effect of having the number of elements ``go to infinity'' is to force time to go to zero. Therefore the limit theorems are not as useful as was once thought."
"Reliability optimization problems with N stages or subsystems in series, utilizing parallel or series redundant units, can be formulated and solved as integer programming problems. The systems considered have subsystems with components which can fail in several modes and are subject to linear and nonlinear constraints. Two situations are considered in which components within the subsystem 1) all fail in the same mode, or 2) all may fail in different modes. Expressions are developed for the probability of failure in each case. Two examples are solved."
"An example of how the specifics of a major subsystem are related to the decision rules developed from cost-effectiveness considerations is given. An extensive study of a subsystem for an advanced ship deployment system was conducted to select the cost-effective subsystem and specify the procurement parameters from many attractive subsystem alternatives. It is shown that for a subsystem whose performance does not limit the productivity of the primary system (achieves minimum productivity) the measure of effectiveness for a constant force size is lowest life cycle cost (LCC). Since only minimum productivity is needed for the lowest LCC, any expenditure which results in getting increased subsystem productivity is both unwarranted and irreconcilable with proper cost-effectiveness concepts as applied to subsystems. The lowest LCC subsystem alternative is shown to be capable of meeting minimum productivity requirements by parametrically analyzing the cost-effectiveness model. The productivity of the subsystem during the mission is a function of the following: equipment state at mission start (includes ``under repair'' states), mission dependability, and subsystem performance by equipment state. The subsystem meeting minimum productivity requirements and the lowest LCC was identified and became the management choice."
"Two different indexes, the hazard rate and the renewal rate, which are implied by conventional uses of the bathtub-shaped curve, are often noted in reliability. The hazard rate is applicable for a single failure time of each item, such as that of a nonrepairable part; the renewal rate is applicable for multiple failure times of each item, such as those of repairable equipment. Occasionally, remarks are made in the literature concerning the mathematical models for the bathtub-shaped hazard rate but not for the renewal rate. Furthermore, bathtub-shaped hazard and renewal curves as conventionally used are each based on certain assumptions concerning failure time distributions. Little data have been recorded for electronic parts and equipment which would substantiate the widespread use of the conventional implications of the bathtub-shaped hazard and renewal rates. The validity of the assumptions concerning the underlying distributions of failure times affects the accuracy of the results of reliability analyses, such as prediction, data analysis, formal assurance tests, operational planning, and maintenance planning. A study of the applications-oriented literature suggests that the distinction between the hazard rate and the renewal rate, as well as some associated implications, are not generally appreciated. Thus the existing situation is apt to lead engineers astray as well as others with application interests. Basic concepts and definitions are emphasized and extensions and implications are sketched. References are selected and noted for those interested in further pursuit."
"Most present-day reliability schemes using redundancy to mask the failure of individual logic modules employ majority voting with the assumption that the replicated modules have symmetrical failure characteristics. An analysis is presented of such schemes when the modules exhibit asymmetrical failure modes; that is, the probability that a module fails with a 0 output is not equal to the probability that it fails with a 1 output. A general expression is presented which gives the reliability of a network consisting of n identical modules feeding a k-out-of-n voter. It is shown that a simple majority element does not always represent the optimal choice. Plots illustrating the results are included."
"Use of the functional relationship between the exponential and the Pareto and limited distributions enables one to obtain conditional maximum-likelihood (ML) estimators, from singly censored samples, of the shape parameters of the Pareto distribution F1(y,ϵ,K) = 1 - (y - ϵ)-K and the limited distribution F2(x,ω,K) = 1 - (ω - x)K by a simple transformation of the corresponding estimator of the scale parameter of the exponential distribution θmn, based on the first m order statistics of a sample of size n. Use is made of the fact that Kmn|ϵ = 1/θmn and Kmn|ω = 1/θmn, where 2mθmn/ω has the x2 distribution with 2m degrees of freedom, to set confidence bounds on the shape parameter K of the Pareto and limited distributions. The probability densities of Kmn|ϵ and Kϵmn|ω, which for a given m are the same for any n ⩾ m, are obtained by a simple transformation of that of θmn. The expected values of Kmn|ϵ and Kmn|ω are determined and from them the unbiasing factors by which the ML estimators must be multiplied to obtain unbiased estimators Kmnmn|ω. Expressions for the variances of the estimators and for the Cramer-Rao lower bound are found. A section on numerical examples is included."
"The maximum-likelihood (ML) estimator for a percentile of a Weibull distribution with a known shape parameter is considered. Multiplicative correction factors are listed for rendering the ML estimator mean or median unbiased in the cases where the samples are type II censored with or without replacement. The correction factors depend upon the number of failures and the shape parameter but are independent of the sample size and the percentile being estimated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The rudiments of information theoretic methods are introduced and companion papers dealing with solutions of some reliability problems using information theoretic approaches are preluded. Major elements of the communication system are outlined from an information processing point of view. Information is quantified following the work of Shannon. The concepts of uncertainty, self-and mutual information, and entropy are developed as seen at the encoder, channel, and decoder. Channel modeling is demonstrated using a binary symmetric channel as an example. Channel capacity is derived by maximizing transinformation. Elements of coding are described and Shannon's fundamental theorem of discrete noiseless coding is stated. The fundamental relations governing unique decipherability and irreducibility are given and demonstrated by examples. Code efficiency and redundancy are quantified and discussed as system parameters subject to tradeoff. Applications of information theoretic methods in various disciplines are discussed with emphasis on reliability and maintainability. Two unresolved reliability problem areas are identified where, potentially, information theoretic approaches may present a viable solution."
"The principle of maximum entropy for assignment of estimated probabilities is intriguing. Since entropy is the negative of information, the principle was renamed. The formalisms for discrete and continuous random variables are described and illustrated. The problem of complete ignorance is discussed and the concept of quasi-ignorance is introduced as a substitute. Constraints on the probabilities, beyond the minimum, are a source of consternation and a stumbling block to the application of the principle. Many questions are raised, but no answers are given. At present, the principle cannot be evoked to solve practical problems in reliability. Theoreticians should apply themselves to find realistic tractable constraints that do not involve logical contradictions."
"The techniques of coding theory are used to improve the reliability of digital devices. Redundancy is added to the device by the addition of extra digits which are independently computed from the input digits. A decoding device examines the original outputs along with the redundant outputs. The decoder may correct any errors it detects, not correct but locate the defective logic gate or subsystem, or only issue a general error warning. Majority voting and parity bit checking are introduced, and computations are made for several binary addition circuits. A detailed summary of coding theory is presented. This includes a discussion of algebraic codes, binary group codes, nonbinary linear codes, and error locating codes."
"The use of error-correcting codes as one of the important techniques to increase computer system reliability is introduced. The different codes used in the central processing unit (CPU) are described. Since the CPU usually contains the data path, logic, and arithmetic units, the codes used in this area are error-detecting codes, such as parity check codes and residue codes. The codes used or suggested for the memory system are discussed, emphasis being placed on parity check codes, two-dimensional codes, Hamming codes and other recently developed codes. The various codes used in the input/output system are presented. The input/output area of the computer system is relatively unreliable as compared with CPU or memory; therefore, error-correcting codes used in this area usually are much more powerful than single parity check codes. These include codes for the magnetic tape, disk, and drum units. The error coding techniques are compared with other techniques for increasing computer system reliability. The future trend of using error-correcting codes in a computer system is also discussed."
"The determination of the reliability level at which to manufacture the components of a coherent structure so that the system reliability h(p) is at a certain level and the overall system cost is minimized is considered. The cost of utilizing component ci at reliability level pi, Ci(pi), is assumed to be a convex increasing function of pi with a continuous first derivative and Ci'(qi)>0 where qi is the lower bound on the reliability level for component ci. Since for most coherent structures the constraint set defines a nonconvex set, any mathematical programming procedure blindly applied to the program converges to a local optimum rather than a global optimum. However, in certain cases, the global optimum can be found for the series and parallel (SP) type of systems. The key to the solution is to optimize each module separately and then to substitute a component for each module where the cost function for the component is the value of the objective function for the module. As long as the cost function for each module maintains the convexity property with In R or In(1 - R) as the argument (R being the reliability of the module), the optimization procedure can continue and a global optimum found."
"The basic ideas of Kalman recursive filtering is explained in such a manner that the application of these ideas to reliability may be seen. The Bayesian viewpoint is adopted, and the explanation of Kalman filtering is broken into two parts: 1) the combination of an old estimate with data, and 2) the updating of estimates via the system model."
"The diagnosis of digital systems can be conveniently modelled as the recognition of distinct binary error-free patterns, Specifically, if for a given fault condition, the pass or fail responses to a set of applied tests are recorded as a column of a matrix M, a test schedule of length k is a subset of the rows of M which preserves column distinguishability. Since the determination of a minimal test schedule is a formidable problem for moderately complex networks, it appears desirable to have guidlines for the evaluation of heuristically or suboptimally computed test schedules. One such guideline is the median kmin of the minimal test schedule kmin over the set of all binary matrices M: while in general [log2m] ≤ kmin ≤ m - 1, this paper shows that kmin < [2 log2m], that is, for most practical cases, kmin is much closer to the lower bound [log2m] than to the upper bound (m - 1)."
"Examples taken from observations of current military maintenance experience show how reliability is affected by the paperwork and procedures which surround a system's use. Information theory is used as a measuring device to demonstrate the degree to which system performance is not a function of engineering design. In the case studied (the Air Force's F-106 avionics systems in use), many reported failures were not the result of either faulty design or human error, but were rather ``required'' by the procedural environment. Information theory provides a means of measuring the size of this effect. Furthermore, information theory in this kind of application may be useful in sorting out the relative importance of the various factors which influence variation in system performance."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The three-value simulator has been used on both rentral processing units and input/output controllers with microprogram control and hardware control. Four major systems have been simulated and built. The experience thus gained has indicated that: (1) It is possible to include simulation in a development cycle and as a result shorten that cycle, even in a changeable technology; (2) The efficiency of debugging hardware will improve because those testing the system have an opportunity to develop their troubleshooting techniques and to learn the computer system prior to the availability of hardware; (3) Logic problems that might otherwise remain undetected can be detected with three-value simulation; and (4) Future technologies will demand design verification simulators similar to the three-value simulator."
"The machine language implementation was derived from the APL function GRADE directly. The modeling process used to obtain the final machine language program eliminated a substantial number of defects before a machine language program even existed and gave an approximate idea of the performance of the machine language program. If an algorithm is to be implemented in machine language, it is recommended that it first he modeled in the fashion used in this paper, starting with a mathematical analysis of the algorithm, then obtaining successive algorithms at more detailed levels of description until the machine language program has been obtained."
"The APL formulation of a large-scale scientific problem can specify the solution precisely, while allowing the system much freedom in producing computed results. The testing and debugging stages of such application programming can be carried out at a terminal. The simplicity of APL helps the programmer see the main design of the problem by reducing the program size. In the problem-formulation phase, the APL programmer is aided by the mathematical consistency of the language and by the inherent explicitness of APL program statements from a mathematical point of view."
"Multistage manufacturing processes are commonplace in industry. To ensure quality in the manufactured goods produced by such processes, some form of inspection is usually employed. Emphasis upon quality, while justified on its own merits, frequently makes the economic evaluation of inspection a secondary matter. The questions of where to eshblish inspection stations in a manufacturing process and how much inspection is necessary often are settled on a noneconomic basis. Yet, pricing and profit pictures are both influenced by answers to such questions."
"Many options are available to the analyst in performing a particular evaluation. As we process through the steps of an evaluation, we keep uppermost in our minds the question: “What problem is being solved?” In structuring a measurement or evaluation experiment, an outline is prepared. Elements of the outline include: What decision is being made? How should the results be interpreted? What is the most meaningful presentation od data? What sensitive elements should be examined? What technique should be used? What input is required for the technique? How should (or can) the input data be obtained?"
"The operating system models have been used for both development and installation work. They can be modified to simulate the effect of a proposed change, as well as simulating the activity of a specific Configuration of equipment to be installed. Since the models are miniature systems, they can serve as an educational tool, to elucidate the functions of the operating system and its relationship to user programs. The models have been written for general use. However, feedback from the pilot users indicates that two versions of the same package are really required: a detailed version similar to that described above, and a gross version with additional input options."
"This paper has attempted to introduce the basic concept of trace-driven modeling. As in all simulation approaches, one major concern is the precision of predicitive capability. The trace-driven approach lends itself to accurate predictive evaluations by successive calibration steps. Given an existing configuration capable of executing a given job mix in an operating-system environment, the time required to run the jobs can be measured and firmly established. On the other hand, the job profiles for this set of jobs can also be obtained using a trace program under the same conditions. The output from the model that runs with the parameters representing the physical system can be compared directly with the measured results. Because of this inherent property, accuracy of the model can be established prior to its use on a configuration that cannot be measured. In this paper, the model was presented as a demonstration of trace-driven modeling. Although no formal effort was conducted toward validation of the model, results from a preliminary investigation were satisfactory. The experience gained from this experiment has convinced us that the trace-driven approach is feasible for computing-system evaluation. In computing science, as in other scientific areas, changes generally occur in an evolutionary fashion. Therefore, the trace-driven technique may well be applicable for future system evaluations."
"The items measured here are but a few of the possible uses of the system monitor. To date, concentration has been on items of interest to the user of the data processing system. Even here, the measurements taken have been those that concern overall system performance, Once these adjustments are made, attention will probably be turned to more detailed measurements, such as an interruption-handling routine, channel contention, a critical subroutine, and other small but, important aspects of the system. Also, the monitor may be used in the future to acquire data to assist the designers of new equipment, an area where monitors have proved useful in the past."
"A variety of statistics useful to installation managers can be obtained continuously at little cost in computing time. The designers of programming support for gathering such information must be cognizant, of those areas where unreasonable amounts of machine time can be consumed. For greater efficiency, they must also carefully consider the kinds of information that are actually needed, while providing sufficient flexibility to obtain additional data the need for which was not originally anticipated. Two general approaches were of major significance in achieving these objectives for the job accounting system. The first was the decision to provide data at optional levels of detail, thus reducing the time lost collecting unwanted information. The second was the use of a data base in which to store all monitored information. Post-processing of the data base can then be used to produce reports tailored to particular needs."
"In the absence of a theoretical definition of performance, we will here describe performance quantitatively in terms of the running time of a given job, or rather the reciprocal of this time so as to associate the faster marhine with the larger number. To make performance a reproducible measure, we will, as far as possible, exclude hard-to-control variables, such as manual set-up and error recovery times. These important aspects of overall performance must be stated as factors reducing the ideal performance of a perfect system."
"The analytic approach appears to be useful in providing approximate stretching factors for storage contention. However, if the desired results must be much more accurate than 10 to 15 percent, it is usually necessary to resort to simulation; the advantages gained through the speed of the analytic technique ordinarily are balanced by its inability to mirror changes in model complexity as readily as simulation."
"Data management has been presented as a hierarchical structure incorporating the concepts of list processing. The ability to control the structure includes the facility to manage data at each of several levels within a compatible framework. Such a unified approach allows the proper definition of functions that might be incorporated in the actual circuit logic. The distinction between logical and physical data structures provides the user with a flexible level of data independence that is compatible with each level. This integrated approach to the management of data structures may permit the investigation of other techniques that are applicable to data retrieval. Experimental approaches to problemsolving, utilizing heuristic programs and minimaxing,8,9 have been tried and could be very useful in the area of information retrieval. The notation of sets might be a powerful technique in the specification of string or segment requirements"
"The GPSS/360 program offers adaptability, flexibility, and ease of use in a general purpose modeling tool which is applicable to the analysis of a wide range of dynamic systems. The most significant extensions and improvements in GPSS/360 in comparison to previous versions of the General Purpose Simulation System can be summarized as follows: • Signed halfword or fullword parameters and savevalues • Eight independent random-number generators • Additional Standard Numerical Attributes • Boolean variables • Preemption based on priority • Matrix savevalues • COUNT and SELECT blocks • Group entity and associated blocks • Symbolic entities • Macroinstruction capabilities • Update feature • Output editor • Graphic capabilities GPSS/36O also offers greater versatility by operating under OS/360 and DOS/36O."
"The techniques described have all been implemented and are working well in an on-line environment assisting control of a vital national facility. The teleprocessing design is not just a technique to combine low-speed and high-speed terminals in one general package; it also provides a basis for development of techniques to provide real-time control facilities on standard general-purpose equipment and support programs. This basis is achieved by the automatic, on-line philosophy of the teleprocessing control program. This program is designed to run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with minimal operator intervention. No external contact between operators of the central system or the terminal is needed. The foundation is laid for the next development, that of entering direct monitoring signals into the TCP and initiating appropriate calculations or responses. The multiprocessing control by ASP fulfills the reliability consideration of such a system, and it is feasible to build on this to provide automatic reconfiguration after failure, which is a requirement of real-time control. Already, the system described here is capable of reinitializing and restarting itself from an intermittent equipment or program failure, and is running in the environment of a normal batch job processing system."
"Error rates associated with current digital systems are usually extremely low in spite of the increasingly high speed of processing and transmission. Recent developments in error-correcting codes have contributed toward achieving the high reliability required by today's digital systems, and it is evident that the use of coding methods for error control has become an integral part in the design of modern computers and communications systems."
"A complete analysis of any data-processing system, including a time-sharing system, must consider two fundamental questions: (1) What functions arc given the users of the system? (2) How are the resources that are used in implementing these functions controlled, allocated, and assigned? The word “functions” includes the number, convenience, and logical flexibility of the programming and control languages, the amounts and types of storage, and the provisions by which the user can modify and add to these facilities. In the second question, the set of considerations, called scheduling, is of primary interest in this paper, but it is not completely independent of the supplied functions. This is so because, as we shall see, a central scheduling issue is the degree of advance knowledge available on calls for resources. The degree is usually smaller, the greater the generality of functions provided."
"The IBM 2938 Array Processor together with its access method (APAM) increases the processing power of SYSTEM/360 Models 44, G5, and 75 for operations on vectors and matrices. The auxiliary processing capabilities discussed have proved especially useful in such areas as seismic exploration, vibration analysis, turbulence research, and image enhancement. Because of the modular design of the present access method, it is possible to write signal processing subroutines that can perform certain common operations useful in these applications."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a pseudo-random number generator that uses the full capacity of the 32-bit registers of IBM SYSTEM/360 computers, and to briefly report on and document the testing of and experience with the random number generator. The generator is a particular case of the sequence of numbers xi generated by the equation xi+1 = Axi (mod p) (1) where p is a prime and A is a positive primitive root of p."
"Some of the earliest applications of operations research techniques were made in the field of transportation. Until recently, however, little was done within the railroad industry. This paper describes an application of network flow analysis to onc problem of that industry: empty freight car allocation. Other modes of transportation may benefit from the Same analysis and the algorithm developed herein."
"A point of view and a method of calculation derived from energy band theory are applied to the problem of finding energies of Bragg reflections from a given crystal. Energy curves are defined and calculated which describe the behavior of individual diffracted electron beams for a given set of beams incident on a particular face of the crystal. Intersections of these curves correspond to and identify the Bragg reflections associated with each beam. Energy diagrams and Bragg peak positions are shown for simple cubic and face-centered cubic lattices for various angles of incidence. We discuss the method in some simple cases and then solve the problem of finding Bragg reflections from the general crystal lattice with an arbitrary surface plane and arbitrary incident beams. The effect of the surface in producing well-defined diffracted beams for any incident beam and in grouping the Bragg reflections into these beams is described. Tables and formulas, which apply to any direction of incidence, are given for the Bragg reflections from the (001), (110) and (111) faces of the face-centered cubic lattice."
"A two-dimensional mathematical analysis is presented of the steady-state mechanisms of operation within a planar type junction field-effect transistor (JFET). This analysis shows that the potential distribution within the source-drain channel follows from solutions of Poisson's equation rather than from Laplace's equation. In particular, velocity-limited carrier transport produces a region of carrier accumulation in a region of the source-drain channel previously assumed to be depleted of carriers by the gate junction space-charge layers. The results of this two-dimensional mathematical analysis are presented in graphic form."
"In this paper a new sequential decoding algorithm is introduced that uses stack storage at the receiver. It is much simpler to describe and analyze than the Fano algorithm, and is about six times faster than the latter at transmission rates equal to Rcomp, the rate below which the average number of decoding steps is bounded by a constant. Practical problems connected with implementing the stack algorithm are discussed and a scheme is described that facilitates satisfactory performance even with limited stack storage capacity. Preliminary simulation results estimating the decoding effort and the needed stack size are presented."
"Two deposition parameters are important in rf sputtering of SrTiO3 films: the oxygen-argon content ratio, and the substrate temperature. More than 1% oxygen is needed to produce insulating films; the exact percentage required depends on system cleanliness. Both dielectric constant and crystallite size increase with increasing substrate temperature. Films of 2400 Å deposited at 500°C on gold have a dielectric constant of 200. The dc conductivity closely follows the Poole-Frenkel model. Two dielectric loss peaks are believed to be caused in part by an oxygen deficient region near one electrode. The variation in the dielectric constant κ with electric field is similar to that observed in bulk material."
"RF sputtering of stoichiometric, polycrystalline gadolinium iron garnet material results in films significantly deficient in iron content. The cation deficiency is shown to be quite sensitive to preparatory conditions and reflects itself markedly in the magnetic and structural properties of the resultant films. Temperature dependent sticking probabilities and selective resputtering at the growing film surface are thought to be the most likely causes for the observed deficiencies. A simultaneously operated rf-dc two-target sputtering system is described in some detail, which allows an expeditious study of and subsequent compensation for the observed cation deficiency. Films with essentially the bulk garnet composition and bulk structural and magnetic properties were prepared in this two target system."
"A simple algorithm is presented for nonlinear filtering of a time series composed of a gaussian component, pulses and steps. The method used is a combination of simple statistical techniques. The main advantage is claimed to be a scheme for adaptation of the filter parameters."
"A simplified model for a transverse vibrating beam has been shown to characterize the cantilever very well. The forcing function is dependent on temperature field, which is found by the method of images. Time-dependent contributions to the temperature distribution are conveniently included in the well-tabulated modifiedB essel function KO"
"Pattern verification is mathematically defined, an appropriate decision function derived, and a measure for system evaluation is given. Two basic postulates are set forth to fully define a verification system: each known class is expected, with nonzero probability, to be verified under the correct class label; and the pattern vector extracted during verification should be descriptive of the given class, independent of which class label was entered into the system. Through appropriate use of a priori probabilities, three types of information can be incorporated into the theory: the expected number of times a given class will require verification, the expected use of each class label by a given class, and the likelihood that a particular class is susceptible to “impostor” patterns."
"We have observed optical damage to LiNbO3 at room temperature from focused cw GaAs laser radiation at a wavelength of 8450 Å. Visible damage was apparent after a 20-sec exposure corresponding to an energy flux of about 1.2 × 105 J/cm2 and was observed by changes in the diffraction pattern of the crystal. This is believed to be the first report of such damage in the potentially useful wavelength range of 0.8 to 0.9 µm. No damage was observed at a wavelength of 9030 Å in a similar but pulsed-laser experiment."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most eficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Boulder, Colorado; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; Raleigh and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Vienna, Austria; Boeblingen, Germany; and Uithoorn, Netherlands. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
"Operations research is the application of scientific analysis to management problems; its aim is to provide decision makers with a sound quantitative basis for decision making in the face of complex relationships, uncertainty and risks, conflicts of interest and alternative courses of action."
"The unit manufacturing cost (i.e., its estimator) for a given manufacturing program with stochastic demand and operation yield is assumed to be a random variable. For a simple series production line the probability distribution of the unit manufacturing cost has been derived by either the transform method, which uses Mellin and Laplace transforms, or the method of moments, which uses either the Gram-Charlier series approximation or the Pearson system of frequency curves. The estimates and 90%-confidence intervals for the base manufacturing cost are computed for two device-component products. The model cost estimates are very close to the actual values and the confidence intervals are sufficiently narrow to be useful in applying contingencies to the predictions."
"A wide class of single-product, dynamic inventory problems with convex cost functions and a finite horizon is investigated as a stochastic programming problem. When demands have finite discrete distribution functions, we show that the problem can be substantially reduced in size to a linear program with upper-bounded variables. Moreover, we show that the reduced problem has a network representation; thus network flow theory can be used for solving this class of problems. A consequence of this result is that, if we are dealing with an indivisible commodity, an integer solution of the dynamic inventory problem exists. This approach can be computationally attractive if the demands in different periods are correlated or if ordering cost is a function of demand."
"An experimental real-time system is described for assigning customer engineers (servicemen) to requests for service, preventive maintenance and engineering- and sales-change activities. The system, which can be applied to service organizations of many kinds, is viewed as a stochastic programming formulation. The resultant mathematical programming problem is structured as a control system, an inner control loop and an outer adaptive feedback loop in which system parameters are adjusted based on a performance index. Tests of the system have been made using data from the Brooklyn, New York and Washington, D.C. IBM Field Engineering Division branch offices."
"In this model of sellers' competition we are concerned with the transition from a single-seller market to a two-seller market, the effects of transition on the first seller, his likely reactions and the thereby changed market situation that awaits the entering competitor. The decision variables considered in this model are the sizes of the two sales forces. We show that the enterer should not view the market as it stands prior to his entry, but as changed by the first seller to accommodate or oppose his entry. Upon the entrance of the competitor, both sellers must increase their sales forces to attain the levels of profit anticipated prior to entry, if indeed these can be attained. Equilibrium strategies are shown to be maximal sales effort on the part of the first seller and either maximal sales effort or abstention from entry on the part of the enterer. A finite series is derived to express the exact expectation of a class of rational functions of a binomially distributed random variable."
"In this network flow problem we deal with two distinct commodities, each commodity being identified by a pair of source and sink nodes. The problem consists of maximizing the total flow (biflow) of the two commodities. It is solved by an inductive algorithm which starts with a maximal multiterminal flow from the set of sources to the set of sinks in the network, yields the value of the maximal biflow and terminates with the construction of the maximal biflow itself. Computational experience shows that this algorithm can also be used in the three-commodity flow problem to obtain a good lower bound for the value of a maximal three-commodity flow."
"A new suboptimal intermediate-speed algorithm which uses n2 ln n steps is developed for the assignment problem. Upper and lower bounds are derived, using this algorithm and other methods, for the average values of three classes of n × n assignment problems: 1. When the elements of the matrix are random numbers uniformly distributed over the range 0 to 1, the average optimal value is smaller than 2.37 and larger than 1 for problems with large n. Experimentally the value is about 1.6. 2. When the elements of the matrix are random numbers such that the probability of being less than x is xk+1(k ≠ 0), asymptotic express ions for the upper and lower bounds of the average optimal value are Cknk/(k+1)and Ck[(k + 1)/k]nk/(k+1), respectively. 3. When each column of the matrix is a random permutation of the integers 1 to n, asymptotic upper and lower bounds are 2.37n and 1.54n, respectively. Experimentally the value is about 1.8n."
"The problem considered is that of finding the shortest path between the two nodes of every pair in a large n-node network. A decomposition algorithm is proposed for use when the number of arcs is less than n(n-1). The network is first decomposed into several overlapping subnetworks. Next, with each subnetwork treated separately, conditional shortest paths are obtained using triple operations. Finally, these conditional shortest paths are used to obtain the shortest paths between paired nodes in the original network by matrix mini-summation. This decomposition algorithm requires less computer storage and fewer arithmetic operations than other known algorithms."
"The problem of finding a minimaximal path in a disjunctive network is stated in terms of both graph theory and linear programming with mixed-integer variables. It is solved in both formulations using a “direct search” scheme with additional dynamic features, which seems to be a more efficient algorithm than those based on other methods. Although it yields an optimal solution, the algorithm can be used as such or with very few changes to find suboptimal solutions for larger problems. Computational experience on the general machine scheduling problem is described."
"The classical traveling-salesman problem is to determine a tour that will minimize the total distance or cost involved in visiting several cities and returning to the starting point. This paper describes a new heuristic algorithm that has been programmed for a digital computer and that obtains optimal or near-optimal solutions to the problem. The author's general approach was derived from an existing algorithm developed by Karg and Thompson in 1964. Computational results for five multi-city tours are presented and the algorithm is shown to be competitive with other existing heuristic techniques."
"This paper reviews the functions of private automatic branch exchanges (PABX's) and describes the organization of the IBM 2750 Voice and Data Switching System. This system has two main functional areas: (1) line switching, transmission and signaling, and (2) common control. The switching network uses a new integrated electronic crosspoint. The common control is performed by a built-in duplexed computer with stored programs dedicated to line switching. The IBM 2750 offers a variety of normal and advanced voice features, and some entirely new data features, and is designed for interconnection with an IBM System/360. Four companion papers describe the electronic switching network, the network control program, and the integrated crosspoint in greater detail."
"A description of the voice and data switching network of a fully electronic private automatic branch exchange (PABX) is given, including a description of the crosspoint device and its principles of operation. Some related circuity is described, including the terminal and service circuits, supervision circuits and a loss-compensation device."
"This paper describes the operational program of the IBM 2750 Voice and Data Switching System. The program runs in the supervisor unit of the two network controllers used in the 2750. This program controls: (1) the duplexing of the network controllers; (2) the switching network; (3) the data collection and transmission operations passing through the system, including interconnection with IBM System/360; (4) the on-line error handling and system testing. The IBM program uses all available core storage. It is flexible, is tailor-made to each customer's requirements, and runs continuously without customer assistance."
"The design considerations for a semiconductor crosspoint consisting of an SCR-diode-resistor circuit are presented and the fabrication process is briefly reviewed. These crosspoints have an ON-resistance of three to four ohms and a capacitance of approximately three picofarads. They can be interconnected on ceramic modules to form matrix arrays for use in telephone line switching applications."
"After restating the experimental definition of the response time of a low-power thyristor by assuming a well-defined dc triggering current, the authors show that the equivalent two-transistor representation of the thyristor leads to a theoretical interpretation of the triggering condition under certain simplifying assumptions. The accuracy of this theoretical model is shown to be satisfactory. A practical definition of the response time of a thyristor is proposed, and the literal expression of the response time as a function of the parameters of both constituent transistors is given. Examples of application are then given in the design of the switching networks of the IBM 2750, where thousands of thyristors are used as crosspoints arranged in matrices and connected in series."
"A data-recovery feature has been developed for recovering electron-beam recorded information which is microscopic in dimension and has been partially obliterated by flaws in a photographic-film recording medium. This feature provides (1) backup procedures that exploit redundancies in the recording format for the synchronization and identification of data, (2) coding for error detection and correction of 5 independent characters in 50 data character lines, (3) variation of machine parameters that affect reading performance, and (4) statistically optimized schedules for applying a variety of recovery techniques. Error rate is reduced from one error line in about 100 lines to less than one error line in 2.7×106 lines."
"In order to design a radar to detect, track, and identify unknown targets, models of the expected electromagnetic scattering properties of the targets must be developed. This communication begins with a qualitative discussion of interactions between an incident wave and a plasma-clad body in order to give the general reader a heuristic understanding of the problem background. Then rigorous calculations of normalized backscatter cross section for a spherical, plasma-clad body, and the limitations of this model, are presented in context with earlier background material. A plasma simulation technique is described as a means for modeling a diverse range of reentry bodies and plasmas that are not amenable to analytic solution. The theoretical analysis can be used to validate the simulation technique in a spherical configuration after which the technique can be used to simulate many other plasma shapes around a variety of bodies."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most eficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division: RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; Raleigh and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; and Vienna, Austria and Boeblingen, Germany. Papers are listed alphabetically by Journal name."
"The acoustoelectric instabilities appear in diverse forms and seem complex because of the large number of factors which influence them. A perspective on the instabilities is provided in terms of experiments on the III–V semiconductors, selected to limit or control the variables. Detailed evidence is presented that the source of the acoustic flux is the thermal equilibrium phonon spectrum. The individual contributions of various factors to the instabilities are identified and discussed; e.g., 1) circuit conditions (constant current or constant voltage) which determine the degree of feedback between buildup of flux and gain everywhere in the sample, 2) boundary conditions, including destruction or reflection of flux, 3) inhomogeneities in resistivity of the samples, to which the current oscillations and initial stages of domain formation are particularly sensitive, and 4) the form of the acoustoelectric gain curve, which determines whether the feedback on the gain is positive or negative when the current is changed by the flux buildup. Also, several aspects of deviation from small signal theory are identified. In strong flux, 1) the peak of the frequency spectrum of the flux is shifted down, 2) the acoustoelectric gain coefficient is changed, and 3) the carrier distribution function may become hot in the high field of the domain. It is concluded that the strong flux effects modify but do not basically determine the form of the resistance instabilities."
"Mechanisms for the downshift in the frequency of maximum acoustic intensity fmi for high flux domains in piezoelectric semiconductors are reviewed. For the simple case where an externally introduced acoustic wave (pump) produces a single-frequency domain in photoconducting CdS, clear evidence is given that the downshift in fmi is due to parametric amplification of thermal acoustic noise. For a pump of 990 MHz, after some initial growth (vd=1.14 vs), the pump is found to be depleted. In the pump depletion region, signals in a 200 MHz band about the even subharmonic (445 MHz) are found to grow. At pump strains of about 10−6 the signals propagated at angles to the pump equal to those that give phase matching according to the dispersion of linear theory. For higher pump strains, however, the collinear process is dominant. The signal domain is narrower than the pump domain, as expected, because the parametric growth is exponentially dependent on pump strain. The downshifting of fmi in the region where deviations from linear theory are still small is discussed in terms of a parametric interaction model, with the initial acoustic strain distribution considered as an incoherent pump."
"Brillouin scattering measurements in n-GaAs show (1) that the initial formation of acoustoelectric domains is the consequence of spatially inhomogeneous amplification produced by resistivity inhomogeneities, and (2) that the subsequent stages of domain evolution involve flux-dependent processes which further shape the domain; an important process appears to be parametric frequency conversion."
"In CdS crystals oriented with the electric drift field parallel to the c axis, acoustoelectric domains consist of off-axis shear waves. This is because there is no acoustoelectric gain for shear waves traveling along the hexagonal axis, while the gain may be large in an off-axis direction. The particular angle at which the gain is a maximum depends on the angular dependence of the electromechanical coupling coefficient and the component of the electron drift velocity along that angle. These factors combine to make the angle of maximum gain a function of drift velocity along the c axis. Using a stroboscopic strain-birefringent method, we observed the off-axis domains directly. The domain tilt angle has been found to depend on drift velocity in roughly the same way as predicted from the small-signal angular dependence theory. Discrepancies may be the result of large-signal effects or of angular dispersion."
"It was demonstrated by Kikuchi that two modes of acoustoelectric domain oscillation occur in InSb in a transverse magnetic field. Using lithium niobate transducers on an acoustic amplifier, we have measured linear acoustic gain as a function of electric and magnetic field and frequency. At high magnetic fields (B ≥ 3000 gauss) the results are in good agreement with White's theory. However, at low magnetic fields, the wavelength of the sound waves is less than the mean free path of the electrons, and the macroscopic theories break down. We have extended a microscopic theory of magnetacoustic interactions, due to Spector, to include electron drift. We find excellent agreement between theory and experiment over the whole range of magnetic field. Moreover, the results account very clearly for the two modes of acoustic domain formation."
"Semiconducting glass diodes can exhibit at least three conducting states: a high-resistance, or “off” state; a low-resistance, or “on” state; and a negative resistance state. When appropriately pulsed they can also display a memory function. The laboratory operation of simple diodes and the methods of inducing transitions among the various states are described. In addition, the possible role of phase changes in the mechanism of device operation is discussed, and new evidence in support of a filamentary conduction hypothesis is presented."
"A four-fold classification of the current-controlled instabilities in amorphous semiconductors is proposed. The experimental evidence supporting a simple band model for the amorphous covalent alloys is given. The present understanding of the reversible switching effects and of the switching with memory is discussed."
"A current filament is a non-uniform radial distribution of current in the presence of a uniform electric field in a uniform sample. These filaments can have diameters in the 0.005 inch range. The current density at the center of the filament can be several orders of magnitude higher than the background current density in the rest of the sample. Filaments have been studied in devices exhibiting the current-controlled negative resistance associated with specific cases of two-carrier space-charge-limited current double injection. Electrons and holes are injected from opposite contacts into a semi-insulator in which the lifetime of carriers of one sign is much longer than the lifetime of carriers of the opposite sign. When forward biased this device exhibits a high-voltage, high-impedance (108ohms) pre-breakdown region and a low-voltage, low-impedance (1 to 103ohms) post-breakdown region. In the post-breakdown region current increases at a nearly constant voltage followed by a high-current power-law region. Current filaments have been studied throughout the post-breakdown region by recording the recombination radiation observed through one of the injecting contacts. Experimental and analytical studies of current filaments in silicon at 77°K and GaAs at 300°K are reviewed."
"We observe current oscillations in p-i-n (and optically excited n-i-n) devices containing deep levels. The oscillations occur in the positive resistance region of the space-charge-limited (SCL) current regime of the I–V characteristics, before the occurrence of double-injection breakdown. This is a general effect, occurring in Si, Ge, and GaAs compensated with various deep-level impurities and in electron-irradiated devices. The oscillations are sinusoidal at threshold, with frequency strongly dependent on the recombination kinetics of the i-region, and on the deep level density, but are essentially independent of device length. The frequency and amplitude of the oscillations are affected by temperature and optical excitation. Various models have been proposed to account for oscillations in semiconductors containing deep levels, but no existing model describes fully the various aspects of the effect reported here. Because the device length exceeds carrier diffusion length, any model for the oscillation mechanism must include the existence of space charge and the kinetics of recombination, but may not depend essentially upon a traveling domain which imposes a length dependence on the oscillation frequency. Tentatively, we favor a model in which the recombination process unbalances the steady or dc space charge."
"If the strength of a pulsed electric field of about 103 volts/cm is exceeded in a nickel-doped 25,000 ohm-cm π-type silicon sample with n+ contacts, a transient charge distribution is established that leads to a current instability. When the critical applied field is reached a current-controlled negative resistance is observed. The sample impedance decreases by several orders of magnitude, with a switching time in the nanosecond range, and microwave oscillations are produced. Below the threshold a space-charge-limited current flows, and voltage profile measurements show the presence of the expected negative space charge near the cathode. As the field is increased this space charge extends further into the sample. At the threshold the nickel centers become ionized, and a positive space charge is created in the center of the sample. This non-equilibrium distribution, which persists for a period of 200 to 300 microseconds, has properties similar to those of a gaseous plasma."
"Numerical calculations have been made of the high-field electron distribution function for GaAs, its small-signal frequency response and its behavior in large sinusoidal electric fields. The response speed is limited by the low scattering rate within the 〈000〉 valley. With increasing frequency the threshold field for negative conductivity rises and the negative mobility and oscillator efficiency fall. The free-electron dielectric constant is positive at high-fields, with a peak near the threshold field."
"This paper is the first part of a two-part review of recent work on current instabilities and related properties of germanium in high electric fields. In this part we discuss the general subject of high field transport in n-Ge with emphasis on the concept of saturated drift velocity. The oscillations which result from bulk negative differential conductivity (BNDC) in [100] and [110] directions at low temperatures are discussed and related to the saturation effects. A discussion of theoretical and experimental evidence with regard to the BNDC effects is presented. Finally, the anisotropy of the high-field conductivity is discussed and related to the Erlbach instability."
"This paper is the second part of a two-part review of recent work on current instabilities and related properties of germanium in high electric fields. In this part the transferred carrier mechanism for producing bulk negative differential conductivity (BNDC) in a semiconductor is discussed. Experimental work on instabilities related to three realizations of this effect, in uniaxially compressed n and p-type Ge, and in n-type Ge at low temperatures with field and current in a 〈111〉 direction, is reviewed. Theoretical understanding of these effects, which is largely qualitative at this time, is discussed. In an appendix a list of materials in which BNDC effects have been observed is presented, with some of the relevant properties of these materials."
"Two mechanisms have been proposed for the bulk negative differential conductivity of n-type germanium first observed by Elliott et al. These are discussed with reference to recent Monte Carlo calculations in which effects due to intravalley acoustic phonon scattering, 〈100〉 and 〈000〉 minima and ellipsoidal constant energy surfaces are explored. Strong evidence is presented that electron transfer to 〈100〉 minima causes this negative conductance. The origin of its temperature and orientation dependence is discussed."
"A study has been made of transverse electromagnetic wave propagation in the negative differential resistance medium provided by suitably oriented n-type germanium at 77°K. The wave frequency is chosen to fall below the critical scattering rates in this system (1 GHz), and the sample dimensions are maintained below the critical length for domain formation. Thus when the electric vector is oriented parallel to the dc biasing field, and the propagation vector is normal to the biasing field, growth of the wave is to be expected and evidence of it is presented. In addition, the real and imaginary parts of the conductivity are evaluated throughout the dc bias field range from zero to 3.5 kV/cm, for a range of resistivities."
"The formation of stationary high-field domains adjacent to cathode or anode, dependent on the contact potential of the electrodes, their widening with increased applied voltage and their transition into two types of moving domains are discussed. Domains which move under deformation of the domain profile and usually dissolve before they reach the anode, and nearly undeformed moving domains are described. The structure and kinetics of these domains are directly observed using the Franz-Keldysh effect and photographs of typical domain forms are presented."
"The effect of hydrostatic pressure on the Gunn effect (high pressures) and bulk avalanche breakdown (low pressures) in n-InSb is studied. The measured generation rates of electron-hole pairs at 77°K and 195°K at several pressures are compared with the theory of Dumke."
"Pressure dependence of the resistivity and optical absorption by conduction band electrons are used to determine the position of the 〈111〉 (L1) conduction bank minima in the GaxIn1−xSb alloy system. These experimental data permit a more precise estimate of the position of the L1 minima than had been possible using Gunn effect data alone."
"We obtain excellent agreement among experiments eliciting a variety of GaAs current instabilities and the results of a computer simulation of GaAs with various fields imposed at the cathode boundary. When the cathode field is below around 4 kV/cm theory and experiments show that the I–V characteristics of the active element are linear up to about 3 kV/cm where the current saturates and no transit-time oscillations occur. Experimentally this element gives rise to severe noise in a resistive circuit and sometimes tunable oscillations in a resonant circuit. When the cathode field is in the differential negative resistivity regime the I–V characteristics of the active element are nearly linear up to a threshold field (determined by the boundary field) where current drop, voltage rise and transit-time oscillations occur. For cathode fields above about 15 kV/cm the I–V characteristics are nonlinear and the element exhibits tunable oscillations in a resonant circuit."
"A theory is given for the velocity of a free, steadily travelling domain of high electric field in a semiconductor exhibiting a negative differential conductivity. Explicit results are derived for the cases for which the domain behavior is dominated either by the (electric-field dependent) diffusion of electrons, or by the rate of transfer of electrons between states having different mobilities. It is shown that the solution for the electric-field distribution has the required properties only if the system of differential equations involved possesses singular points with special topological properties; this requirement serves to fix the domain velocity. The velocity depends only on the properties of the semiconductor at that high electric field where the effective drift velocity of electrons is equal to that outside the domain."
"The conditions necessary for the formation of avalanche shock fronts, narrow layers of avalanche moving through a diode depletion layer faster than the carrier saturated drift velocity, are shown to be related to the large-signal limits of Read and more general avalanche transit time diode theory. Analysis of shock fronts by a simple analytic method has been used to interpret computer simulations of high efficiency microwave oscillator diodes. The oscillation mode, called the Trapatt mode, involves a compensated electron-hole plasma that is trapped in the depletion layer for a portion of each cycle."
"Coherent microwave radiation, 6.5 to 44 GHz, is generated by InSb at 77°K with an injected electron current transverse to a magnetic field. The maximum output power is about 10 microwatts for input power levels of one to five watts. Grooves cut into the Suhl surface of the rod-shaped InSb samples impose the coherence and determine the frequency range of coherent operation. Wavelength measurements of a surface wave show that the effective groove width is equal to about a half-wavelength. A theory of double-stream interaction in a thin plasma layer with a magnetic field transverse to the current flow predicts instabilities in the observed frequency range. The theory predicts all of the qualitative and several of the quantitative features of the observed emission. Noise emission is predicted and observed at temperatures up to room temperature with appropriate onset magnetic fields. The theoretical analysis and concurrent experimental evidence demonstrate the existence of an instability in a thin-layer plasma in the absence of a magnetic field at 77°K."
"A strong NDM (negative differential mobility) in n-InSb at low temperatures is predicted from a single non-parabolic band model. Calculations allowing for the anisotropy of the distribution function have been made using (1) a drifted Maxwellian, and (2) a “two-temperature” model. The calculated NDM threshold field of 550 V/cm is in an observable field range in p-n junctions. In bulk samples, where breakdown occurs at E ≈ 200 V/cm, domain nucleation may take place at high-field inhomogeneities and contribute to the dynamics of the breakdown process and attendant microwave emission."
"The experimental evidence for the generation of microwave emission from InSb by acoustic amplification of thermal noise is reviewed. The conditions in which the electron-phonon interaction is likely to dominate over other possible physical mechanisms are discussed, with particular reference to crystallographic orientation and crystal geometry. The application of the small signal acoustic amplification theory is shown to lead to qualitative agreement between constant gain loci and emission threshold curves."
"This paper gives a new explanation of the low-field noise emission from InSb. Theoretical predictions and experimental measurements with a fine tungsten probe (10-µm definition) show that there are very large fields at one corner of the cathode contact in the presence of a transverse magnetic field. Our experiments show that avalanching occurs near this point and the noise amplitude has a strong maximum there. In a longitudinal magnetic field all samples measured have shown inhomogeneities near the cathode contact, which are the source of noise."
"Microwave emission from n-InSb at 77°K in the presence of electric and magnetic fields was studied. Rectangular InSb samples were cut so that the long dimension and the applied electric field were parallel to one of the crystallographic axes 〈100〉, 〈110〉, or 〈111〉 and so that the position of all other axes was known. It was observed that instabilities in the voltage across the InSb sample accompanied the microwave emission and that, for a limited range of electric and magnetic fields, these instabilities were in the form of coherent oscillations. Both effects showed their lowest electric field thresholds when the magnetic field was parallel to one, but not a specific one, of the crystallographic axes. Both effects were shown to occur at electric fields below those expected for an electron-hole plasma and a close correspondence between the two effects was demonstrated."
"This paper reviews the experimental observations of microwave emission from InSb and the theories proposed to explain these. Two sources for some of the radiation, the acoustoelectric interaction and a collision-induced plasma instability, appear reasonably well established. Experiments are proposed to clarify a number of still unanswered questions."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; Raleigh and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Vienna, Austria, Boeblingen, Germany, and Lidingö, Sweden."
"Recently Longuet-Higgins modeled a temporal analogue of the property of holograms that allows a complete image to be constructed from only a portion of the hologram. In the present paper a more general analogue is discussed and two two-step transformations that imitate the recording-reconstruction sequence in holography are presented. The first transformation models the recall of an entire sequence from a fragment while the second is more like human memory in that it provides recall of only the part of the sequence that follows the keying fragment. Both models require only the three operations: shift, multiplication and addition."
"Holograms synthesized by computer are used for constructing optical wavefronts from numerically specified objects. Elimination of the need for a physical object has made new applications possible, for example, three-dimensional computer output displays, synthetic prototypes for interferometric testing, and filters for various optical data processing operations. Our computer holograms differ from a normal hologram in that the transmittance is binary, yet they are able to construct general wavefronts and images efficiently and have several practical advantages over holograms with a continuous range of transmittance. Recent improvements that simplify the production of binary holograms and improve their performance are described and experimental work showing reconstruction of two- and three-dimensional images is presented."
"A method is described for the generation of optical spatial filters using electron beam-addressed crystals of KDP. Some examples of simple filters which have been successfully written by this method are presented."
"An interactive graphic system is described in which a designer using a light pen creates an optical filter design at an IBM 2250 Graphic Console controlled by an IBM 1130 computer. The designer can observe the reflectivity (or some other property) of the filter as a function of wave number plotted on the CRT. The application was developed using an experimental graphic version of the 1130 Continuous System Modeling Program (CSMP), a general purpose, block-oriented simulation language in which the functional blocks represent the elements and organization of an analog computer. The designer has available a full set of operators for further analyzing the behavior or modifying the design of the filter. In addition to providing a highly flexible analytic tool, the system is intended to explore means for making the interactive computer terminal an important element in the inventive process."
"A new digital light deflector, capable of being switched in less than 35 µsec with less than 300 V, uses the principle of switchable total internal reflection. The deflector produces high-quality, high-contrast images and its low cost and high light transmittance make it potentially well suited for use in optical-beam-addressable memory systems as well as for other applications in which random deflection is desirable."
"Acousto-optic devices based on isotropic and anisotropic acoustic Bragg diffraction will be discussed in terms of their efficiency and bandwidth. The conflicting requirements on the width W of the acoustic column with regard to efficiency and bandwidth determine the basic limitations of the devices. A scheme using the acousto-optic devices within a flat-field conjugate (FFC) angularly degenerate laser cavity has been experimentally demonstrated. The bandwidth of the new scheme is limited by the field angle of the FFC cavity instead of by W−1. The width W can be made as large as possible to increase the diffraction efficiency without decreasing the bandwidth. The new scheme provides means for high efficiency and large bandwidth in optical deflection and signal processing systems."
"Data are presented for three families of objective lenses useful in making high resolution plates and improving the process of photoresist exposure. These lenses have 7 to 10 elements each, spherical surfaces only, and were designed with the aid of computers. Many of the lenses have been fabricated and these have confirmed the soundness of the design methods, assessment criteria, and manufacturing techniques."
"The stress required to operate dislocation sources within a grain, at a grain boundary, and at surfaces is found to be larger than the intrinsic stresses observed in polycrystalline films. It is therefore unlikely that a dislocation flow mechanism can relieve stresses in films. Grain boundary sliding and diffusional creep can, however, relieve stresses in films and equations describing the kinetics of stress relaxation are derived. It is suggested that stress relief occurs primarily by a diffusion-creep mechanism. Growth of hillocks during annealing of a film is briefly discussed in terms of the diffusion-creep mechanism."
"The elasticity of magnetic tape is an important factor in determining the shape of a tape loaded over a magnetic head. Over a single apex the radius of curvature of the tape is inversely proportional to the wrap angle and to the square root of the ratio of tape tension to bending stiffness. If a constant-pressure support is assumed instead of a knife edge, the radius of curvature increases considerably. A chart is provided for use in calculating the radius of curvature under different loading conditions. Over a double apex the results are the same as for a single apex except when the distance between apexes becomes small. By increasing the radius of curvature of the head to conform to the radius of curvature of the tape, the rate of head wear can be greatly reduced."
"A recursive calculation of polynomial coefficients is used to demonstrate how functions performing polynomial algebra and differentiation may be written concisely in Iverson notation and executed by an on-line, time-sharing implementation of APL. These functions will operate on symbolic polynomials with constant coefficients and display in a superscripted format results having up to 116 variables."
"In a recent paper,1 it was shown that the profile inferred from differential capacitance measurement2–5 of semiconductor junctions is not that of the impurity atom distribution but, instead, that of the majority carrier distribution. For this reason, conventional differential capacitance measurements can be used to evaluate the impurity atom distribution only in charge neutral semiconductor material (where the majority carrier density equals the density of ionized impurity atoms). This requirement of charge neutrality limits the applicability of this measurement technique to semiconductor material containing a minimum impurity atom density of about 1016 atoms/cm3."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Cambridge, Massacllusetts; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; and Boeblingen, Germany. Journals."
"A new, computer-generated, optical element called a kinoform is described. This device operates only on the phase of an incident wave and forms a single image by wavefront reconstruction without the unwanted diffraction orders characteristic of holograms. The kinoform is also more efficient in the use of spatial frequency potential and reconstruction energy and can be synthesized in considerably less computer time than the digital hologram."
"The glass-passivated, face-down semiconductor chip joining technology employed in IBM's SLT (Solid Logic Technology), has become not only a fundamental element in the hybrid circuitry of System/360 but also the basis for later metallurgical designs. The “flip-chip,” copper ball terminal, solder reflow technique is comprehensively reviewed and a discussion is given of its extension, through the use of ductile, all-solder terminals, to monolithic applications."
"Solder reflow connection of semiconductor devices to substrates has been shown to be a reliable, effective, and readily automated technique. Rigid copper spheres, which remain rigid during solder reflow, have been used successfully for some time as a major element of the contact joint. However, to expand the capability of such joints to larger devices such as multiple-transistor chips in hybrid components, ductile metallic joining pads can be used on the devices instead of the copper spheres to reduce mechanical strains and permit multi-pad devices to make proper contact to module lands during reflow. This paper describes a technique that prevents these solder pads from collapsing and permits large scale production. Termed “controlled collapse,” the method is based on limiting the solderable area of the substrate lands and chip contact terminals so that surface tension in the molten pad and land solder supports the device until the joint solidifies. The result is a sturdy, testable connection of high reliability (bond strength 30–50 gm, pilot-production yields exceeding 97%, predicted failure rate—based on laboratory tests—considerably lower than that of copper ball contacts). The process is economically adaptable to automation and offers considerable latitude in fabrication and control tolerances."
"This paper deals with the mechanical reliability of controlled collapse solder joints in modules subjected to the thermal fatigue conditions of machine usage. Particular emphasis is placed on design variability and how the shape and dimensions of the joint and chip affect reliability. A systematic technique is presented to optimize pad dimensions. A new experimental method to characterize chip-to-substrate interconnections—the torque test—is described and analyzed. Its applicability to design evaluation is discussed and representative data are analyzed. The relationship between torque test measurements and fatigue is discussed."
"The use of solder pads to join multi-pad integrated circuit chips to modules provides a highly reliable, rugged interconnection technology. This paper reports some important aspects of the reliability evaluation that was carried out on the “controlled chip collapse” interconnection system developed by IBM. Included are an analysis of the mechanics of the system, a model to establish the relationship among different thermal fatigue testing conditions, and experimental verification of the model. In the course of this work, the chip failure rate of the interconnection as used in present designs was predicted to be better than 10−7%/1000 hours for the mechanism studied."
"Parameters governing the temperature profiles of typical semiconductor chips joined to circuit module substrates by controlled chip collapse (flip-chip bonding) techniques are discussed. These include the physical and geometric properties of various layers of metals and non-metals that form the chip-to-substrate interconnection. The importance of the bond between the interconnection and the substrate from the point of view of interfacial thermal resistance is indicated. Also, the “thermal pinch” effects of voids in controlled chip collapse interconnections are discussed. The various thermal impedances as obtained from computer simulated temperature profiles are given graphically as functions of the parameters. The derivation of a semi-empirical expression for predicting the transient response of junctions on joined chips is shown."
"The thin film metallurgy used for SLT chip terminal contacts has been studied with respect to the soldering procedure used for chip-to-module joining. A simple solder immersion test was used to study wetting and dewetting effects on Cr films overlaid with films of Cu and other metals. It was found that the initial soldering reaction (consisting of the conversion of the Cu film to a Cu-Sn metallic layer) proceeds to completion in only a few seconds. Thereafter, the intermetallic layer starts to disintegrate and become thinner by a mechanism identified as solution-assisted spalling. Removal of the intermetallic layer by this mechanism is not limited by simple solubility considerations. From metallographic observations and the inability to produce direct wetting of Cr films by solder, it was concluded that the basic cause of solder dewetting is the excessive loss of intermetallic from the underlying Cr film. Dewetting is accelerated if the Cu film is deposited on an oxidized Cr surface. These observations underscore the importance of the manufacturing practice of overlapping the Cr and Cu depositions so as to obtain an adherent and interlocked structure which is resistant to spalling. Other studies have show that Al films are relatively inert to molten pure Pb-5% Sn solder, but are susceptible to rapid attack if gold is added to the solder. Appreciable delay of such attack is afforded by an overlying film of Cr, provided both surface and edge coverage are achieved."
"We present a class of methods for approximating the root of a function. The methods are designed for execution on a parallel processor and when they are so executed, the speed of the approximation process is increased. The increase in speed is estimated analytically by computations of the order of convergence of the various methods presented."
"Details are provided for two subroutines with which one can compute the various characteristics of the electromagnetic radiation scattered by an absorbing, homogeneous sphere of any reasonable size. The necessary expressions for this purpose were first derived by Mie. The method of computations used is the so-called method of logarithmic derivative of one of the complex functions, introduced by Infeld. The main difference between the two subroutines is in the procedure used in computations of one of the functions. This function is computed by an upward recurrence procedure in one subroutine and by a downward recurrence procedure in the other. Sufficient results for demonstrating the reliability of these programs are presented and discussed for a sphere of 10 µm radius illuminated by an unpolarized radiation of 0.4 µm wavelength."
"In order to design an interconnection system for nanosecond-risetime logic circuitry, it is necessary to obtain a balance between impedance variations, propagation velocities, and crosstalk levels so as to achieve the best system speed as well as system speed control. To accomplish this, it is necessary to relate the electrical material properties and physical dimensions of the connections to characteristic impedances, propagation velocities, and crosstalk coupling coefficients."
"The stress developed in an elastic cylinder of finite length undergoing thermal expansion with one end clamped is expressed in terms of a series expansion of a biharmonic function, appropriate derivatives of which give the displacements and stresses within the cylinder. The coefficients in this series are determined by a least-squares fit to the boundary conditions at the ends of the cylinder and values of the stress on various surfaces are found as functions of the height-to-radius ratio. All components of the stress tensor become infinite at the circumference on the clamped end. A tabulation is included of quantities of interest in any cylindrical problem in which the curved surface is a free surface."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; Raleigh and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Boulder, Colorado; Vienna, Austria and Boeblingen, Germany. Journals."
"A colleague of mine started his physics experiment at 4:30 p.m. the other day and went home. For the next twelve hours a digital computer controlled the apparatus and recorded the data. In the morning these data in their refined and reduced form were available for interpretation. In another laboratory analytical chemists have attached a number of digital computers to their instruments for more reliable and faster analyses. These are only a couple of examples which illustrate possible benefits from laboratory automation. The anticipation of automated biological and physical laboratories in space and data acquisition from instruments for the comprehensive care of critically ill patients have been discussed in the press and are reportedly being developed and implemented. Today, the capability for many exciting possibilities of laboratory automation exists. Laboratory automation with a digital computer can readily be done for many experiments. We therefore felt that it would be useful to devote an issue of the IBM Journal of Research and Development to the subject. These are reports of original work in the field of experimentation aided by digital computers. They include descriptions of functioning systems involving some aspect of data acquisition, open and closed loop control, and real-time data analysis through the use of devices such as an interactive graphic terminal. Needless to say, this is not the first mention or discussion of advanced topics in laboratory automation. A partial bibliography of recent literature is included at the end of this Foreword. Note that most of the works cited are from 1966 on and indicate the emergence of the field. With the references from the papers in this issue, the papers themselves, and this bibliography, a worker interested in the subject should have a good start. The rapid advance of the field precludes much more than that."
"Many instruments in research laboratories are now operated under varying degrees of computer control, not merely to accumulate and store data, but to obtain information about the sample sooner. The need for the scientist to interact with the computer is then as important as the instrument-computer interaction. This requirement leads to strong differences in implementation between laboratory automation and process control, and also suggests that the scientist must consider his over-all information needs as well as his instrument needs. A control computer shared by several people doing x-ray diffraction and fluorescence work is used as an example to illustrate some of these aspects of laboratory automation."
"The application of an IBM 1800 computer to the control and data acquisition functions of a wide-range spectrophotometric system is described. The optical part of the system is designed primarily for solid-state spectroscopy in the reflectance mode, the energy range of interest being roughly 1 to 12 eV (104 to 105cm−1). The operations of the computer include regulation of the wavelength setting, determination of the system gain, analog-to-digital conversion of the output signal, and positioning of the sample and detector. Two experimental configurations are employed, depending on whether or not the sample and detector are to remain stationary or to be repositioned during a run. The former holds for electroreflectance, fluorescence, and photoconductivity studies, while the latter pertains to ordinary reflectance and transmittance measurements. The principal advantage to be derived from on-line computer control of such experiments, besides more rapid accumulation and reduction of data, is the improvement in signal-to-noise ratio by averaging many repetitive scans over the same energy range. The emphasis in this paper is on the software used to implement these operations."
"A data collection and analysis system, using a high-speed, general-purpose digital computer, has been developed at the California Institute of Technology and applied to the study of visual processes of pattern recognition in living nervous systems. The experimental technique employs a rapid, flexible method of neural network modeling that permits an analysis of network functional behavior and a comparison with experimental data. Some details are given of research on neural activity in the visual system of the insect order Diptera."
"The logical and timing requirements and the control circuitry of spectrometers in all energy ranges, chromatographs, scanning interferometers and microdensitometers, and a large class of related experimental apparati are very similar. From the standpoint of on-line computation and control, they can be considered parametric variations of a single experiment. With a magnetic resonance spectrometer as an example, we describe briefly the central, common elements of the necessary computer-instrument interface and of adequately flexible and open-ended control programs. Some examples of results follow."
"A digital computer has been interfaced to four 256-channel analyzers. All functions of normal multichannel analyzers have been reproduced by suitable coding. In addition, a weighted least-squares method for estimating on line the contribution of individual radionuclides in a multicomponent pulse height spectrum has been incorporated. Details of the mathematics and coding methods, which include special modifications to an existing FORTRAN system for on-line use, are described."
"The graphics terminal described was developed for low-energy nuclear-physics data acquisition and control, and is currently in use at the Yale University Wright Nuclear Structure Laboratory as part of an IBM System/360 Model 44-based system. It is comprised of dual cathode ray tube displays, a light pen, and function keyboard, and includes character generation, display simulation, and photographic facilities. It is capable of plotting 200,000 points per second with variable intensity. The display programming structures, which support highly interactive communication between physicist and computer, are discussed in detail. A data acquisition programming system permits the creation and manipulation of self-describing global data and display entities. Examples of the resultant increased experimental sophistication and efficiency are presented."
"The usefulness of computer simulation in interpreting and extending experimental information is presented via a practical example taken from the area of chemical metallurgy."
"Digital computers have become indispensable aids for many laboratory disciplines, allowing the performance of experiments which would be infeasible without the aid of a computer. Until recently, these computations have usually been carried out off-line, i.e., experimental data has been acquired in real time and subsequently processed on a large central computer. Small, relatively inexpensive digital computers first entered the laboratory as a substantial aid in real-time acquisition of data and control of experiments. Such computers, however, suffer severe limitations with regard to ultimate processing of the data. Hence the data processing must still generally be done on a large computer."
"The Oregon State University computer-analyzer system couples the advantages of on-line data acquisition and analysis with the low cost of a time-sharing computer. The system operates in two modes. In Mode A, a 4096-channel analyzer serves as a data acquisition and buffer storage device with the contents of the analyzer memory being transmitted via telephone lines to the Oregon State University computer for analysis. In Mode B, the correlated outputs of N analog-to-digital converters (corresponding to an N-parameter event) are transmitted to the computer in real time for storage and analysis. Additional information, programming and computations may be entered at any time from a remote terminal console. The results of the data analysis can be returned immediately to the remote terminal console or to any regular computer output device. This system has the advantages of being able to utilize the full facilities of a large computer, its FORTRAN compiler, etc., for on-line data acquisition and analysis while avoiding the responsibilities of hardware maintenance and systems programming for the nuclear chemists."
"Hardware developed to implement the computer control of a single-beam monochromator operating under a time-sharing system is described. A stepping motor and associated circuitry yield very precise wavelength positioning in an open loop configuration and with a minimum of computer use. The circuits used to position and step the wavelength are described in detail."
"A computer system may typically be expected to progress through a cycle terminating in overloading. The experience with an early system at the author's nuclear physics laboratory serves as an example. The original computer and a similar machine later installed with it are now overloaded and a new system is under construction. The success of the interactive data analysis on the original system has made it desirable to enhance the display and light pen facilities while reducing the computer time involved in generating the displays. The use of a data storage/display disc effectively provides off-line displays but requires more manipulation in data acquisition. The solution is found in the large number of processing units economically feasible with third-generation equipment. Two linked computers will perform data acquisition and analysis, the smaller performing data acquisition under the control of the larger, which will run a fairly simple time-sharing system. Together with several I/O processors, this hierarchy of processors will provide ease of program development and a very high degree of computational power and data acquisition capability."
"The problems involved in lens testing, as opposed to the testing of one lens under one set of conditions, are of sufficient magnitude and complexity that the use of a computer is almost imperative to make the job practical. A machine and method for evaluation of lenses is described which employs a digital computer as a major component, has no restrictions as to the quality of lenses which may be accommodated, and requires no precision targets or auxiliary optics of any type. The results are in a form directly applicable to predictions of performance of complicated systems where the lens is one of several linear dissipators. The reader is introduced to lens testing considerations and a brief discussion of methods, followed by a detailed description of a specific implementation and computerized approach. Next, the basic mathematics involved, including a practical procedure for truncating a Fourier series, are explained in some detail. Finally, examples of measured output and machine accuracy and stability examination are given."
"This paper surveys the many ways computers and connected special devices are used in the laboratory of high energy nuclear physics research of CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research) in Geneva, Switzerland."
"With the increasing availability of terminal-oriented, time-shared computers, it now becomes feasible to extend the method of use to include real-time, on-line data acquisition and data reduction. Here described is a particular embodiment of such a system, using an IBM 1050 terminal and the IBM Research M44/44X and the APL/360 Model 50 computers. Reasons leading to the choice of equipment, special devices, programming considerations, data rates and some economic factors are considered."
"Small scientific computers have been widely used in research laboratories for on-line data acquisition to improve the efficiency of data collection and to perform sophisticated data manipulation before storage. An equally productive use of such computers is for the subsequent reduction of these data in real time, permitting interaction between investigator and computer and providing immediate interpretation of masses of data. This report describes the philosophy and techniques developed for the SCANS (Stanford Computers for the Analysis of Nuclear Structure) system for the reduction in real time of multichannel pulse-height spectra, which comprise the bulk of data in Nuclear Physics. The programming language for users is FORTRAN, to provide flexibility and ease in introducing and modifying sophisticated concepts such as nonlinear least-squares fitting. Software interface to specific real-time hardware devices such as oscilloscope display and light pen is accomplished via library subroutines which perform a variety of general purpose services. Several different applications of this approach to various types of data spectra are discussed to illustrate the degree of mutual interaction achieved between investigator and computer and the resultant optimization of reduction techniques to suit particular types of data."
"The Chemistry Department of the Stony Brook Campus of the State University of New York is composed of a number of faculty members whose research experiments fall generally into two categories; (1) steady data acquisition and control tasks with relatively small data and demand rates, and (2) continuous scan-type measurements of various data rates. An IBM 1800 control system is employed as the nerve center of a computer-based experiment complex. This paper discusses the multi-experiment control system used at Stony Brook Chemistry, giving some details of experiments performed by faculty members as examples of its application. It is pointed out that one of the objectives of this computerized department is creation of a course in the use of computers in chemistry. With a data-acquisition computer available in the department, the course can include actual bench practice in data acquisition and control tasks."
"The application of a mathematically-oriented conversational computing system to data collection and computer control for a specific experiment is described. Relatively simple interfaces are used between the experiment and computer terminal to provide for voltage analog inputs and outputs to the experiment. The terminal is connected to the computer by way of conventional voice-grade telephone lines. It is concluded that this type of data acquisition system is quite useful for experiments in which several-second computer response time can be tolerated, data reduction is necessary and the computer load is insufficient to justify the use of a local computer. An additional facility which provides for the ability to plot data was found to be extremely useful."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; DPG, Data Processing Group; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; and SDD, Systems Development Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; and Boeblingen, Germany. Journals."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Dedication, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, Introduction, The Concept Of Information, The Concept Of Meaning, Failure Of Communication, Social Groups As Information Systems, Conclusion"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction, The Impact of Information on the Organism, Perception and Communication, Questions, The Meaning of a Question, Requests and Commands, Quantitative Aspects, Conclusions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, Introduction, The Theory of Information, Meaning, Some Test Cases, The Relevant Ensembles, Mechanical Translation, ‘Meaning’ In the Formalism of Information Theory, Conclusions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Subjective Aspect, The Operational Effect of Information, The Central Nervous System, The Physical Representation of the Perceived World, Meaning, Relevance, The Communication Process, Conclusion, Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, Scientific Information, Communication, Meaning, Partial Participation, The Receiver's Internal Representation of Information, Probabilistic Aspects, Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Form and Intonation, An Incomplete Picture, An Essential Presupposition, Looking for a Definition, Criteria of Meaninglessness"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, A Functional Approach, Energy Versus Form, A Working Definition of Meaning, Messages as ‘Keys’, Structural Versus Functional Criteria, Semantic Units and Criteria of Truthfulness, Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, Selective Information-Content, Descriptive Information-Content, Applications of Information Theory, Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, The Inadequacy of a “Stimulus Equivalence” Model, Perception Versus Linguistic Understanding, The Intentional Character of Linguistic Utterance, Symptoms Versus Descriptions, Conclusions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Foreword, Information and Noise, Sources of Information, Concept-Handling Artefacts, Code-Generating Artefacts, Human Information-Generators, Conclusion"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Indeterminacy Versus Unpredictability, Uncertainty and Information-Content, Heisenberg Uncertainty, Human Beings as Information Sources, A Non-Existence Theorem, Contrast with Uncertainty due to Ignorance, Dialogue, Conclusion"
"This chapter contains sections titled: What Information Theory is About, Explanatory Glossary, Postscript on Structural Information-Content and Optical Resolution"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Preface, Introduction, Contents, Half Title"
"This paper is concerned with the accumulation of round-off error in a floating-point digital filter. The error committed at each arithmetic operation is assumed to be an independent random variable uniformly distributed in (−2−t, 2−t) where t is the length of the mantissa. Expression for the mean square error is derived and a numerical example is given."
"Recently, statistical models for the effects of roundoff noise in fixed-point and floating-point realizations of digital filters have been proposed and verified, and a comparison between these realizations presented. In this paper a structure for implementing digital filters using block-floating-point arithmetic is proposed and a statistical analysis of the effects of roundoff noise carried out. On the basis of this analysis, block-floating-point is compared to fixed-point and floating - point arithmetic with regard to roundoff noise effects."
"A statistical model for roundoff noise in floating point digital filters, proposed by Kaneko and Liu, is tested experimentally for first- and second-order digital filters. Good agreement between theory and experiment is obtained. The model is used to specify a comparison between floating point and fixed point digital filter realizations on the basis of their output noise-to-signal ratio, and curves representing this comparison are presented. One can find values of the filter parameters at which the fixed and the floating"
"The literature on sampled-data filters, although extensive on design methods, has not treated adequately the important problems connected with the actual realization of the obtained filters with finite arithmetic elements. Beginning with a review of the traditional design procedures a comparison is made between the different canonical realization forms and their related computational procedures. Special attention is directed to the problems of coefficient accuracy and of rounding and trucation effects . A simple expression is derived which yields an estimate of the required coefficient accuracy and which shows clearly the relationship of this accuracy to both sampling rate and filter complexity."
"When implementing a digital filter, it is important to utilize in the design a bound or estimate of the largest output value which will be obtained. Such a bound is particularly useful when fixed point arithmetic is to be used since it assists in determining register lengths necessary to prevent overflow. In this paper we consider the class of digital filters which have an impulse response of finite duration and are implemented by means of circular convolutions performed using the discrete Fourier transform. A least upper bound is obtained for the maximum possible output of a circular convolution for the general case of complex input sequences. For the case of real input sequences, a lower bound on the least upper bound is obtained. The use of these results in the implementation of this class of digital filters is discussed."
"We introduce an approach to the design of low-pass (and, by extension, bandpass) digital filters containing only zeros. This approach is that of directly searching for transition values of the sampled frequency response function to reduce the sidelobe level of the response. It is shown that the problem is a linear program and a search algorithm is derived which makes it easier to obtain the experimental results."
"It is commonly assumed that digital filters with both poles and zeros in the complex z-plane can be synthesized using only recursive techniques while filters with zeros alone can be synthesized by either direct convolution or via the discrete Fourier transform (OFT). In this letter it is shown that no such restrictions hold and that both types of filters (those wth zeros alone or those with both poles and zeros) can be synthesized using any of the three methods, namely, recursion, OFT, or direct convolution."
"This discussion served as an introduction to the Hardware Implementations session of the IEEE Workshop on Fast Fourier Transform Processing. It introduces the problems associated with implementing the FFT algorithm in hardware and provides a frame of reference for characterizing specific implementations. Many of the design options applicable to an FFT processor are described, and a brief comparison of several machine organizations is given."
"The Hilbert transform has traditionally played an important part in the theory and practice of signal processing operations in continuous system theory because of its relevance to such problems as envelope detection and demodulation, as well as its use in relating the real and imaginary components, and the magnitude and phase components of spectra. The Hilbert transform plays a similar role in digital signal processing. In this paper, the Hilbert transform relations, as they apply to sequences and their z-transforms, and also as they apply to sequences and their Discrete Fourier Transforms, will be discussed. These relations are identical only in the limit as the number of data samples taken in the Discrete Fourier Transforms becomes infinite. The implementation of the Hilbert transform operation as applied to sequences usually takes the form of digital linear networks with constant coefficients, either recursive or non-recursive, which approximate an all-pass network with 90° phase shift, or two-output digital networks which have a 90° phase difference over a wide range of frequencies. Means of implementing such phase shifting and phase splitting networks are presented."
"An approach to the implementation of digital filters is presented that employs a small set of relatively simple digital circuits in a highly regular and modular configuration, well suited to LSI construction. Using parallel processing and serial, two's-complement arithmetic, the required arithmetic circuits (adders and multipliers ) are quite simple, as are the remaining circuits, which consist of shift registers for delay and small read-only memories for coefficient storage. The arithmetic circuits are readily multiplexed to process multiple data inputs or to effect multiple, but different, filters (or both), thus providing for efficient hardware utilization. Up to 100 filter sections can be multiplexed in audio-frequency applications using presently available digital circuits in the medium-speed range. The filters are also easily modified to realize a wide range of filter forms, transfer functions, multiplexing schemes, and round-off noise levels by changing only the contents of the read-only memory and/or the timing signals and the length of the shift-register delays. A simple analog-to-digital converter, which uses delta modulation as an intermediate encoding process is also presented for audio-frequency applications."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction, An Algorithm Suggested by Chirp Filtering"
"This paper presents an algorithm for computing the fast Fourier transform, based on a method proposed by Cooley and Tukey. As in their algorithm, the dimension n of the transform is factored (if possible), and n/p elementary transforms of dimension p are computed for each factor p of n. An improved method of computing a transform step corresponding to an odd factor of n is given; with this method, the number of complex multiplications for an elementary transform of dimension p is reduced from (p−1)2 to (p−1)2/4 for odd p. The fast Fourier transform, when computed in place, requires a final permutation step to arrange the results in normal order. This algorithm includes an efficient method for permuting the results in place. The algorithm is described mathematically and illustrated by a FORTRAN subroutine."
"A computational algorithm for numerically evaluating the z-transform of a sequence of N samples is discussed . This algorithm has been named the chirp z-transform (CZT) algorithm . Using the CZT algorithm one can efficiently evaluate the z-transform at M points in the z-plane which lie on circular or spiral contours beginning at any arbitrary point in the z-plane. The angular spacing of the points is an arbitrary constant, and M and N are arbitrary integers. The algorithm is based on the fact that the values of the z-transform on a circular or spiral contour can be expressed as a discrete convolution. Thus one can use well-known high-speed convolution teehniques to evaluate the transform efficiently. For M and N moderately large, the computation time is roughly proportional to (N + M) log2(N + M) as opposed to being proportional to (N ⋅ M) for direct evaluation of the z-transform at M points."
"A statistical model for roundoff errors is used to predict output noise-to-signal ratio when a fast Fourier transform is computed using floating point arithmetic. The result, derived for the case of white input signal, is that the ratio of mean-squared output noise to mean-squared output signal varies essentiallay as ν = log2N, where N is the number of points transformed. This predicted result is significantly lower than bounds previously derived on mean-squared output noise-to-signal ratio, which are proportional to ν2. The predictions are verified experimentally, with excellent agreement. The model applies to rounded arithmetic, and it is found experimentally that if one truncates, rather than rounds, the results of floating point additions and multiplications, the output noise increases significantly (for a given ν). Also, for truncation, a greater than linear increase with ν of the output noise-to-signal ratio is observed."
"This paper contains an analysis of the fixed-point accuracy of the powqer of two, fast Fourier transform algorithm. This analysis leads to approximate upper and lower bounds on the root-mean-square error. Also included are the results of some accuracy experiments on a simulated fixed-point machine and their comparison with the error upper bound."
"The first part of this paper presents a new measure of sensitivity specifically applicable to the realization of a linear discrete system on a digital computer. It is also shown that the sensitivity of the eigenvalues to parameter inaccuracies in the realization depends strongly on the choice of state variables. From these considerations, a realization is obtained which is “best” for a large class of systems of interest with regard to minimizing storage requirements, arithmetic operations, parameter accuracy, and eigenvalue sensitivity . The second half of the paper considers the very practical problem of determining the number of bits accuracy required in the computer-stored parameters of the system to achieve satisfactory performance . For the realization found to be a best compromise, equations are obtained for determining these bit requirements. Examples are given showing the application of this realization to the computer im - plementation of a discrete filter, and a comparison is given to other possible realizations."
"The frequency response of a digital filter realized by a finite word-length machine deviates from that which would have been obtained with an infinite word-length machine. An “ideal” or “errorless” filter is defined as a realization of the required pulse transfer function by an infinite word-length machine. This paper shows that quantization of a digital filter's coefficients in an actual realization can be represented by a “stray” transfer function in parallel with the corresponding ideal filter. Also, by making certain statistical assumptions, the statistically expected mean-square difference between the real frequency responses of the actual and ideal filters can be readily evaluated by one short computer program for all widths of quantization. Furthermore, the same computations may be used to evaluate the rms value of output noise due to data quantization and multiplicative rounding errors. Experimental measurements verify the analysis in a practical case. The application of the results to the design of the digital filters is also considered."
"This chapter contains sections titled: List of Symbols, Preliminaries, A Specific Isomorphism Between the Analog and Digital Signal Spaces, The Orthonormal Expansion Attached to μ, The Induced Mapping for Filters, Optimization Problems for Systems with Deterministic Signals, Random Signals and Statistical Optimization Problems, The Approximation Problem for Digital Filters, References"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE five technical articles in this issue all relate to one general theme in the management of R, D, & E — problems of measurement for use in decisionmaking, evaluation, and control. Three of these five papers were written by people currently working in industrial or government organizations, and a fourth was written as the result of a summer visiting program in a government organization (NASA). These papers, and the work they represent, reflect management's intense interest in obtaining valid measurements on which to base their decisions."
"A method is presented for determining the money to be spent on product oriented research programs. The method is used by American Cyanamid's Organic Chemicals Division."
"Relationships between organizational factors and the performance of 151 engineers were studied to determine the extent to which the factors preceded performance and performance preceded the factors. Four factors were related significantly to subsequent performance: involvement in work, colleague contact, diversity of work activities, and number of subordinates. Every factor studied (these four, plus salary and influence on work goals) was related to previous performance. The performance-factor sequence was much more predominant than the factor-performance sequence. An engineer's performance apparently has pervasive consequences for his social-psychological working environment."
"The problem of this study was to develop information that might help management of a laboratory complex. Fifteen measurable characteristics from 15 Army laboratories were studied in an attempt to find some that were strategic to the management of Army laboratories. Measurable characteristics were evaluated using two standards: 1) number of papers and invention disclosures, and 2) laboratory performance. Measurable characteristics that were evaluated included R&D experience, age, civilian salary, and in-house R&D obligations. The study results when using two independent standards were similar. That is, a number of measurable characteristics were required in both evaluations in order to achieve a meaningful relationship between characteristics and standard. Furthermore, the characteristics that could improve performance were the same as those that could also increase the number of papers and invention disclosures. Results indicate that it is possible to predict laboratory performance with greater confidence than to predict the number of papers and invention disclosures. It was concluded that measurable characteristics were of importance to management of the Army laboratory complex. Large amounts of R&D in-house funds are necessary in order to achieve small increases in laboratory performance. An increase in R&D experience on the part of military R&D personnel would be a better alternative than funding."
"The increased use of incentive contracts has not eliminated, and may even have increased, the number of changes involved in the procurement of a major aerospace system. One kind of change is the program stretchout that extends the duration of an ongoing program by means of a formal contract change. The principal causes of program stretchouts and the potential benefits and costs resulting from stretchouts are discussed in this paper. Methods of equitably determining the responsibility and dividing of costs for stretchouts between government and contractor are explored. Current methods used to analyze the impact of stretchouts are evaluated and, finally, recommendations for establishing explicit guidelines in fixing responsibility for stretchout costs are set forth."
"Models and techniques to aid management in planning and controlling R&D projects frequently use subjective probability of success forecasts as one of the major inputs. An experiment was conducted at the research laboratories of Monsanto Company to measure the predictive validity and consistency of such forecasts. The results indicate that the eventual success or failure of certain types of R&D projects can be predicted by measuring the time shape of polled probability of success forecasts. Probability of success forecasts appear to yield more valid advance warning indicators than several commonly used project status measures. These results tend to support the hypothesis that R&D planning and control models that are based on subjective probability estimates may realiably be used by management to aid in early identification of eventually failing projects, as well as to aid in project selection and project funding."
"Engineers and scientists exhibit important differences other than the evident differences in degree discipline and type of work activity. For example, most engineers recognize managerial authority, want challenging assignments, and are employer-oriented. Scientists, however, respect “colleague” authority, want freedom to select projects, and are career-oriented. Most behavioral differences are found to be functions of the work environment; thus the challenge to management is to understand how the engineer or scientist perceives his environment."
"Anthony C. Atkinson was born in London, England, in 1937. He received the M.A. degree in chemical engineering from Cambridge University, Cambridge, England, and the D.I.C. degree in statistics and operational research from Imperial College, London, England."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"FRISCHMUTH and Allen present data on a subject that has been explored in a number of articles in this Transactions over the past several years — the thought processes involved in solving scientific or engineering problems. It is a field receiving increased attention for a number of reasons. One of the major reasons it is of current interest is related to the situation in the fields of technical information retrieval and technology transfer. Following several decades of rapid and expensive development of information dissemination techniques, it is now being recognized that many of the existing systems and many of those under development do not match the information requirements, the information — ingesting capabilities, and the information seeking and using style of a large percentage of the R, D & E population."
"Tape-recorded weekly protocols were gathered from three different engineers engaged on the same problem in a three-way parallel R&D project. Based on these protocols and a post-project interview with each engineer, a model of the individual technical problem solving process is developed. The model is in the form of a process flow chart and details the engineer's interaction with sources of technical information. The results of the study indicate that the problem solver need not view the process as one in which the best solution is to be found for a fixed problem. Often the best approach lies in the direction of adapting to existing solutions the criteria which must be met."
"Configuration management is the management of technical requirements which define systems, system equipment, or individual equipment and changes thereto. It is implemented through procedures by which uniform and mutually supporting methods for configuration identification, control, and accounting are established and maintained for systems and equipment and for components of systems and equipment."
"This paper discusses the need for in-house R&D management research activities in government agencies. Problems of manning and training of personnel to conduct such research programs, project portfolio, and strategy are described. Case studies of new and on-going activities are presented. The paper summarizes a workshop, devoted to the subject of in-house management research activities, that was held at Northwestern University, December 12–13, 1966. Participating were representatives from a dozen governmental organizations and Northwestern. The first day explored the methods of organizing and conducting in-house studies within the various governmental organizations represented. The second day was devoted to a meeting on in-house research programs within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. NASA headquarters and field center personnel and Northwestern faculty members discussed respective efforts and mutual problems coupled with future plans."
"A method is described for organizing, evaluating, and classifying contestants in a competition. The technique facilitates the task of decision making by introducing orderliness of approach, quantification technique, and mathematical processing to the subjective problem of judging alternatives. The system is essentially two-phased: 1) an organizational structure that is simply adjusted to encompass the particular subject under consideration; and 2) a rank ordering evaluation and accumulation scheme leading to a numerical assessment for each competitor, which is insensitive to overriding superiority in specific capabilities and demands balanced excellence. The usual vagaries of assigning weights to particular categories are avoided and the lack of defined specifications normally arising in cost-reimbursable competition is handled efficiently. Several useful steps based upon significant experience are stipulated for insuring good proposal response to an advertised request; considerable insight is supplied by specific examples. The method has proved to be an extremely effective tool, and has been applied on varied topics in different circumstances to the satisfaction of its many users."
"The political factors that are affecting R & D are a significant input to the flow model of idea generation in the creativity process, and at times they are a decisive and dominant parameter in the determination of “needs.”"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IT HAS BEEN some time since this Transactions carried a Special Section, although several Special Issues have been published in the regular sequence in the past five years. This year we will have both a Special Section (this issue) and a Special Issue (next issue). The purpose of these projects is to present a set of papers on a particular topic or general area of Management of R, D, & E in one place, for future reference as well as for current use."
"Multiple criteria scoring models have been suggested for use in evaluating competing research and development project proposals. This model form, more than any other, affords the decision maker the opportunity to combine, in exacting fashion, both qualitative and quantitative factors that affect his decisions. To date, however, the project scoring models that have appeared in the R&D literature contain limitations that have caused research management to turn to economic analysis and mathematical programming models of project selection. These other models, while valuable, are severely limited in their ability to consider qualitative criteria important to the evaluation of research. This paper identifies some of the shortcomings present in standard scoring model formulations of the project selection problem and then defines a new form of scoring model, which not only overcomes existing limitations but also exhibits several qualities desirable in a prescriptive model. Literature study suggests that two difficulties are in large part responsible for an observed lack of managerial interest in the development and use of multiple criteria scoring models. First, the scoring model is often thought of as being considerably less accurate in its ability to process data than rate of return analysis or mathematical programming approaches to project selection. Second, because of lack of explicit model structure and due to the rather arbitrary manner in which previous scoring models have been presented, it is nearly impossible to prescribe how to construct an acceptable model for a specific environment. Described herein is a scoring model defined in terms of the statistical regularities of a given research environment, which compares favorably in accuracy and sensitivity to estimation error with other more widely accepted models of project evaluation. An analytical method for model design and verification is defined and discussed in terms of the following steps: 1) selection of evaluation criteria; 2) development of performance measures; 3) quantification of the research environment; 4) determination of criteria weights; 5) initial model specification; 6) selection of model objectives; 7) initial model verification; and 8) complete model specification and verification."
"THE accelerating pace of technology in recent years is a fact of common knowledge. The most significant manifestation of it is the growing mountain of technical information spewed forth by the printing presses. Matching this expansion is a rapidly growing scientific and technical population, which, in the United States, has doubled from perhaps 300 000 in 1930 to over 600 000 in 1950, and then doubled again to a little less than 1 200 000 today."
"The first section of this paper presents a brief background, examples of successful commercial and military transfer, and definitions of four types of transfer, and points out that transfer is “upstream” as well as “downstream.” The techniques for transfer within the firm are presented in a framework of fourteen “dimensions,” as follows: management intent or objectives; normal information mobility; balance of the business functions; motivation to transfer; potential for transfer; form of technology; sophistication gap; scale of investment; measurability of success; duration of transfer; breadth of transfer; perception of implications; extent of boundaries between functions; degree of top-management interest. After each dimension is defined, examples of specific techniques used by successful companies are outlined."
"This paper discusses the opportunities and problems presented in the transfer of technology in a very large company between its aerospace group and commercial products group. The process is presented in terms of the definition and value of technology, the difficulties of transfer, the objectives to be accomplished, the uses of transfer, and the management of transfer, including techniques for improving transfer. Emphasis is placed upon the practical economics of the process, the organization and motivation of people, and the various mechanisms, such as committees, a “switchboard” group, and other communication means that are being developed."
"This paper presents the problem of balancing the requirements of managing a number of separate projects with the requirements of functional specialization, including achievement of technology transfer across projects, within the context of a major nonprofit corporation responsible for the general systems engineering function on major Air Force programs."
"This paper presents the technology transfer experience of a large company in terms f the policies of the company and the mechanics of technical management, including descriptions of specific transfer mechanisms, such as the research council, engineering council, technical symposia, corporate coordinators, “corporate attention” projects, and ad hoc groups. The objectives and methods upon which long-range planning is based are presented as an example of another transfer process, and some of the unsolved problems are discussed."
"This paper uses a specific advanced project — the Surveyor — as a basis for presenting a number of problems in technology transfer and the methods used to solve the problems. The paper emphasizes the importance of mission orientation to transfer and outlines the several organizational approaches that were tried before assigning full-time project groups within the discipline departments. Several examples of planning problems are followed by a description of the organizational methods developed to deal with them. These include “working residencies,” independent evaluation of prototypes and analysis by the user in parallel with the provider, design reviews, failure-mode analysis, and problem-failure reporting."
"Norman R. Baker (A '65) was born in Beverly, Mass., on June 28, 1937. He received the B.S. degree in industrial engineering from Northeastern University, Boston, Mass., and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in industrial engineering and management sciences from Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The group of papers presented here was reviewed and edited for presentation, by a board of which Harold Davidson was the editor. Mr. Davidson was assisted by associate editors Marvin Cetron, Jacob Johnson, and Harold Liebowitz. — The Editor"
"As part of a continuing program of studies of R&D, one area for field research has been identified that is concerned with coupling the flow of ideas about new materials, products, and processes from the laboratory through the steps to utilization. The various complex communication phenomena involved — liaison, interface, coupling, technology transfer (LINCOTT) — are treated in a series of eleven studies. Each has a unique focus and set of variables. They cover a variety of environments — commerical and military laboratories, U. S. firms overseas, and R&D in developing countries. But all the studies share the common goal of increasing understanding of communication and information exchange between functionally related science, engineering, production, and management groups, with the eventual goal of providing tested propositions for improved organizational design."
"Many government and industry leaders now feel that poor transition of technical data and know-how from fundamental and exploratory R&D into commerical utilization is a prime cause of poor research effectiveness. Particularly in the large corporate or Federal laboratory, good research is often “wasted” because no innovation results. Given the current research cost spiral, society can ill afford under-utilized research; in fact, multiple applications on R&D should be the goal. The prime thrust of this paper is that technology is primarily transferred by people, not via organization charts or formal reports."
"This paper discusses a simple and logical method for using Navy Exploratory Development Goals (EDG) and the Navy Technological Forecast (NTF) for the allocation of resources to technology to meet future requirements. First, the military worth of the various EDG in meeting Navy objectives is determined. Second, the utility of the various technologies to the EDG is determined by systems design and scientific/engineering offices. The military worth and technology utilization values are then combined into an Index of Worth value indicating the worth of the various technologies in meeting Navy objectives. A mathematical model is suggested as a future refinement."
"Technological forecasting is becoming a widespread activity in business and the military. The actual accomplishment of the forecasting task is increasing in methodological sophistication. This article presents many practical problems and pitfalls encountered in planning and preparing technological forecasts. The authors examine the factors to be considered in the initial stages of implementing forecasts, the validity of previous forecasts, summarize recent advances, point out new hazards, evaluate the forecasting technique, and include some realistic suggestions for improved technological forecasts."
"Operations analysts and weapons designers all agree on the extreme difficulty of collecting “hard” data on the performance of weapons systems. This paper presents case studies from World War II through Southeast Asia, which illustrate the prevalence of the problem and also show how, for the lack of quite minor detailed information, incorrect conclusions have been reached in operations analysis reports, leading to unnecessarily costly operations."
"The purpose of this paper is to determine the nature of actual research project costs, their probability distributions, and corresponding parameter values so that long-range budget forecasts and variances can be provided. The distribution and parameters of the research project costs for 1963 through 1967 have been developed and are discussed. A description of the present Army budgeting system is presented. The budget forecasting problem is defined and a mathematical model is presented.1 The essential elements of the model are described in terms of parameters and coefficients, which are obtained from the 1963 through 1967 budget data. Four variations of the basic model are developed and compared. This paper contains a list of computer program statements specifically designed 1) to derive the necessary parameters from historical data, and 2) to forecast these parameters for each of five years into the future. The program, its operation, and features are discussed with sample outputs provided for illustration purposes."
"Government and industry are developing many new ways to forecast future technical developments, but the payoff comes when these projections are incorporated as part of the R&D planning process. This is done on two levels — when deciding on future work in a specific development project and when assigning priorities to the overall R&D effort. Systems being developed in industry and in the federal government are able to integrate technological forecasts with data on future needs, probabilities of success, and potential funding levels. The computerized result is a complete ranking of all on-going and potential projects according to their overall worth. But care must be taken to ensure that the computer printout retains its role as a servant and not a ruler of managers. One of many normative (goal-oriented) technological forecasting techniques currently being examined will be discussed in this paper. It is hoped that this technique will serve two interrelated purposes: 1) to explore the structure of project-selection decision problems in the context of the information and organization environment of the R&D manager and 2) to explore characteristics of the R&D process that are relevant to the design and implementation of management system for planning and controlling resource allocation among various R&D projects."
"A method for use in allocating resources to a multi-laboratory, multitask research and exploratory program is described. The basic elements of the underlying model are 1) tasks, projects, and laboratories, 2) contributing sciences and technologies (S and T), 3) criticality of such fields to achieving organizational objectives, 4) relative values of objectives, and 5) costs of performing tasks. Structural models are developed for interrelating tasks, S and T fields, and objectives. A cost-effectiveness model is developed for use in allocating resources to tasks. Research and exploratory development effectiveness is measured in terms of the value of task contribution to organizational objectives. Results of this study tested by experimentally determined inputs include 1) cost-effectiveness relationships for tasks, projects, laboratories, and S and T fields, 2) log-normal distributions for both project cost and effectiveness, and 3) a systematic procedure for allocating resources to R&D activities."
"This paper discusses the Air Force experiment in testing the resource-allocation model called Technology or Research Quantitative Utility Evaluation (TORQUE). This model, which was developed by an interservice team for the Department of Defense (DOD), provides for a closer coupling between future desired military capabilities and laboratory efforts. Specifically, it addresses the area of exploratory development projects and tasks and attempts to provide a balanced allocation of resources within the laboratory. This paper gives the background of TORQUE, the methodology utilized, and some of the findings. A complete appraisal of TORQUE has not yet been made by the Air Force and, therefore, the final evaluation of the technique has not yet been determined."
"Herman Bieber received his degrees in chemical engineering from Columbia University, New York, N."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This paper describes a pulse code modulation (PCM) encoder that employs a delta modulator as the analog-to-digital converter. A tapped binary shift register and an up-down counter cause delta modulation signals to be converted to a uniformly quantized PCM format. When tap weights are optimized with respect to a minimum mean square error criterion, the number of shift register stages necessary to obtain a fixed level of output quantizing noise varies inversely with delta modulation sampling rate. Because the tap weights may be rounded to a modest number of binary places, the arithmetic operations are simple to implement. A significant portion of the delta modulation-to-PCM converter may be time shared among several signals."
"A modification of the silicon diode array camera tube has been carried out which permits X-ray images to be displayed on a television monitor. The silicon target, 50 to 150 μm thick, serves as the tube's vacuum window. Each X-ray photon generates a large number of holes in the silicon substrate. Most of these can be usefully collected, and effective quantum efficiencies over 1000 have been measured. Absolute measurements of the spectral sensitivity have been made and show good agreement with theoretical predictions made using values of hole lifetime and surface recombination velocity obtained from optical measurements on the same target. The silicon diode array offers a number of inherent advantages in X-ray imaging compared with the conventional amorphous selenium target. Among these are greater quantum efficiency, high sensitivity, and temperature stability. The diode array sensitivity greatly exceeds that of film in this X-ray energy range (5 to 20 keV). Moreover, because the video signal current is linear as a function of X-ray photon flux over a wide dynamic range, relative intensities may be compared directly rather than necessitating densitometer measurements as does film. The performance of the many types of X-ray imaging systems in different applications is compared in some detail."
"Insight into the large-signal operating characteristics of IMPATT oscillators has been obtained from detailed numerical calculations of D. L. Scharfetter and H. K. Gummel. However, their calculations are relatively expensive in computer time. Small-signal analyses of IMPATT diodes are much less expensive, but give little reliable information about oscillator performance. This paper presents a model for large-signal analysis of IMPATT diodes which requires less than 1 percent of the computer time used by Scharfetter and Gummel's method, but still provides a realistic description of IMPATT oscillators in modes of operation which maintain carrier velocity saturation. We show graphical results, based on numerical computations, which provide information about phase relationships in IMPATT oscillators and improve understanding of the two-frequency mode of operation."
"We derive an expression for the power spectrum of a class of nonstationary processes with periodicity in the two-dimensional autocorrelation function such that R(t1, t2) = R(t1 + T, t2 + T). Such a class includes many of the common digital signals. The method of derivation is based on the double Fourier transform which relates the spectrum of any signal to its autocorrelation function. This points to a very simple method of finding digital spectra. The results are applied to derive the general expression for the power spectrum of a wave phase modulated with a pulse stream Σ∞−∞ an g(t − nT). The only restrictions on the pulse stream are that the an's are independent and have identical probability distributions, and g(t) is integrable and of finite length."
"A single, constant amplitude, in-band, additive interference is included in the analysis of detecting phase shift keyed signals in gaussian noise. For coherent detection we give a method applicable to any M-phase system, and evaluate the symbol error probability for M = 2, 3, and 4. For differential detection we treat the important cases M = 2, 4, 8, and 16, offering comprehensive numerical results for each. The analysis in each case is based on a single sinusoid with random phase adding to the noisy phase shift keyed signal. The results are then interpreted to include an angle modulation impressed on the continuous wave interferer. The receiver consists of an ideal phase discriminator with a perfect slicer. The channel is also assumed ideal in that intersymbol interference is not considered."
"The No. 101 ESS provides centrex service utilizing stored program common control located in the central office and time-division switching units located on the customer's premises. The 2A and 3A switch units serve a wide range of customers (up to 820 lines) using a PAM time-division switching network with lossless through switching, high return loss, and high crosstalk attenuation. System operation, time-division transmission, logic and control, maintenance features, and physical characteristics of the switch units are described."
"A combination of space division and time division networks makes possible an 800 to 4000 line switch unit private branch exchange for the No. 101 electronic switching system."
"This paper describes the system organization and objectives of the No. 2 Electronic Switching System. The place of No. 2 ESS in the Bell System and the design approach used are outlined and traffic capacity estimates are discussed. This paper also serves as an introduction to the detailed set of papers which follow."
"The control unit system consists of the combination of elements which direct and control the operation and functions of the system. It includes the stores and processing units as well as the elements of the man-machine interface. This paper describes the organization of these units, the processor order structure, and some rationale as to why certain design choices were made."
"The peripheral unite of No. 2 ESS, described in this article, include the scanners, the network, the peripheral decoders and the trunks and service circuits. The scanners serve to collect information for the control complex. The network is a folded, space division network using ferreed switches. The peripheral decoder uses integrated circuits to control relays in user circuits as directed by the control complex. The program controlled trunks and service circuits provide an interface between the outside world and the remainder of the No. 2 ESS."
"In No. 2 ESS modern telephone features are provided by concise call processing programs, which make extensive use of subroutines. This paper discusses the features to be available with the introduction of the system. It describes the call processing program plan used to achieve efficient use of program storage and gives details of supervision processing, digit handling, peripheral equipment control and translation. This paper also describes how call processing programs control the progress of an intraoffice call, and how they are used in testing of trunk and service circuits."
"The No. 2 Electronic Switching System has been planned with dependability, maintainability, and operational ease representing a major portion of the total system design concept. The major characteristics that fall under these headings are redundancy, trouble detection, trouble recovery, diagnosis, repair, man-machine interface, data protection, and operational and administrative procedures for growth and change. All these factors play a large role in both the hardware and software portions of the system design. This article reviews the highlights in each of these areas and describes how they interact in the overall system across both the control complex and peripheral system areas."
"The No. 2 ESS achieves a standardized modular design that is easy to engineer, manufacture, install, operate, maintain, and administer. The use of much existing standard ESS hardware combined with thin film integrated circuits, plug-in growth units, and judicious interframe connectors, has contributed to the development of an economically attractive system for the small central office market."
"The programming of a large switching machine requires that many service functions be performed on a general purpose computer. This article describes the service program package that supports the No. 2 Electronic Switching System. This package includes an advanced macro assembler to convert symbolic source programs into binary object programs, a loader to combine independent assemblies, and a simulator to provide checkout facilities."
"Several results are presented concerning the equation F(x) + Ax = B (with F(·) a “diagonal” nonlinear mapping of real Euclidean n-space Em into itself, and A a real n × n matrix) which plays a central role in the dc analysis of transistor networks. In particular, we give necessary and sufficient conditions on A such that the equation possesses a unique solution x for each real n-vector B and each strictly monotone increasing F(·) that maps Em onto itself. There are several direct circuit-theoretic implications of the results. For example, we show that if the short-circuit admittance matrix G of the linear portion of the dc model of a transistor network satisfies a certain dominance condition, then the network cannot be bistable. Therefore, a fundamental restriction on the G matrix of an interesting class of switching circuits is that it must violate the dominance condition."
"Relative to the huge body of theory of linear time-invariant systems, very little of a general and precise nature is known about the network-theoretic properties of transistor circuits operating under large-signal conditions. One basic property P which a transitor network might have is that if the input approaches a constant, then the output approaches a constant which is independent of the initial conditions. In this paper we prove a stability theorem concerning a nonlinear differential equation that governs the bebavior of a large class of networks. A corollary of this theorem asserts that if a certain condition is satisfied, then property P holds. We consider also the problem of estimating the rate of decay of transients in transistor networks and we prove theorems which allow us to make some often quite conservative, but definite, statements concerning limitations on switching speeds. A practical example considered shows that in some cases the bounds, which are frequently very easy to evaluate, can be quite useful. The proofs depend in an interesting way on the relationship between the static diode characteristic and the nonlinear capacitance associated with a semiconductor junction."
"This paper analyzes an adaptive training algorithm for adjusting the tap weights of a tapped delay line filter to minimize mean-square intersymbol interference for synchronous data transmission. The significant feature of the adjustment procedure is that convergence is guaranteed for all channel response pulses, even for very severe amplitude and phase distortion. The author examines convergence, rate of convergence, and the effect of noisy observations of the received pulses, and he shows that the noisy observations result in a random sequence of tap weight settings whose mean value converges to a suboptimal setting. The mean-square deviation of the tap weights from the suboptimal values is asymptotically bounded with a bound that can be made as small as desired by sufficiently reducing the speed of convergence. The suboptimality arising here results from the use of isolated test pulses for the training signal. However, a training scheme using pseudorandom sequences or the actual data signal does not suffer from the suboptimality effect. Hence, although of possible utility in other pulse shaping applications, the technique presented here appears to be primarily of value in providing a conceptual framework for the closely related but more practical techniques to be examined in the sequel to this paper to be published shortly."
"An upper bound on the error probability is obtained for digital communication (with average power Po and no bandwidth constraint) in the presence of additive white gaussian noise (with one-sided spectral density No) with the use of a noiseless feedback link. A repeat-request strategy is used: the receiver decodes a signal only when it is relatively sure that one particular message was actually transmitted, otherwise it requests (via the feedback channel) a retransmission. We show that as the coding delay T becomes large, we can transmit at an effective rate $\\bar{R} \\lt C = P_\\deg / N_\\deg,$ the channel capacity, with error probability Pe approximately exp ${- T[(\\sqrt{C} - \\sqrt{\\bar{R}})^2 + C - \\bar{R}]}$$, which is a considerable improvement over the reliability attainable with a one-way channel. These results parallel those obtained earlier by Forney for the discrete memoryless channel."
"This paper is concerned with the distortion produced in a frequency modulation wave when it passes through a filter. The phase or frequency modulation representing the signal is assumed to be a band of gaussian noise. The main result is an expression for the power spectrum WΘ(f) of the output phase angle Θ(t). This expression holds for any filter, contains all of the distortion terms due to second and third order modulation, and is suited to computer evaluation. It is useful in many cases, but it has the shortcoming of not containing any modulation terms higher than the third order. A second result is an approximation to WΘ(f), based on log (1 + x) ≈ x (that is, a “first-order” approximation), which is encountered in the derivation of the main result. Although it does not contain all of the second and third order modulation terms, it does contain higher order modulation terms which may give most of the distortion in some cases. The results given here are compared with those obtained earlier."
"In this paper we report the performance of a continuous wave millimeter-wave IMPATT diode oscillator with a wide-band tunability. The diode is mounted in an iris wafer circuit; its oscillation frequency can be modulated either by a varactor diode or by direct modulation of the IMPATT diode bias current. The oscillator has been successfully used as a millimeter-wave frequency deviator in an experimental pulse code modulation millimeter-wave system. We also report detailed measurements on subharmonic frequencies in IMPATT diode oscillators. Experimental results show that wide frequency tunability can be obtained with a circuit which provides an “idler” resonance at one-half the fundamental transit-time frequency. The results also show that by providing “idler” resonances at both the transit-time frequency and at one-half of the transit-time, the oscillation at 3/2 the transit-time frequency is enhanced and yields a useful output power of 2 mW at 86 GHz."
"A simple algebraic method stemming from ideas in minimal state-variable realization theory is developed for the synthesis of two-variable reactance matrices. The method rests mainly on the factorization of a one variable polynomial matrix which is para-Hermitian and positive semidefinite on the imaginary axis, and always yields a realization minimal in both variables."
"This article gives a formula that allows accurate values of the cumulative noncentral chi-square distribution to be computed. Although this distribution has been recognized for a long time, none of the standard references give formulae that are suitable for computing accurate values over an extensive range of the parameters; approximations in terms of the chi-square distribution are usually recommended. A program written by the author, based on the formula given here, has been successful for computations involving more than 10,000 degrees of freedom. Since many steps are required when the degrees of freedom are as large as this, the program is not “fast” but it is believed to be accurate."
"A method for reducing the complexity of the class of linear, time-varying, dynamic control systems is developed where the approach taken is that of uniform approximation (that is, modeling for a region of initial conditions). The objective of the modeling procedure is to choose a linear time-invariant system of given dimension, that minimizes a “worst-case” type of error criterion. Some results from the theory of widths of sets in Banach space are used to obtain bounds on the optimal approximation error as a function of the dimension of the approximating system. The use of these bounds in choosing the order of the approximation is discussed. An example illustrates the use of the derived results."
"This paper presents a second-order statistical analysis for the cascade of a bandpass limiter, and ideal phase detector and a video filter. This cascade forms an important subsystem in the mathematical model of some coherent communication systems where information is transmitted by phase or frequency modulation of the carrier. We derive the autocorrelation function R(t1, t3) of the video filter response when the bandpass limiter input is a fixed amplitude-phase modulated carrier plus stationary gaussian noise. The video filter response is wide sense stationary for some nontrivial cases; these include biphase, single tone, and stationary gaussian noise phase modulation. For these cases, we obtain the video filter output average power spectrum as the Fourier transform of R(τ) for all values of the limiter input signal-to-noise power ratio. An application of the results of this paper is the performance of a FM-PM demodulator for a set of parameters characteristic of one mode of operation of the Apollo Unified S-Band communications system. We present the performance as a family of curves of subcarrier channel output signal-to-noise power ratio as functions of the limiter input signal-to-noise ratio where subcarrier phase modulation index is a parameter. The approach is similar to the analysis by Davenport of the signal-to-noise ratio transfer characteristic of an isolated bandpass limiter."
"A signal may be read from a storage medium faster than the rate that would correspond to real time reconstruction of the signal; this process has been named time compression or time speed-up. Cheap serial shift registers make time speed-up an attractive means to detect Touch-Tone® calling (or other format) signals on a multiplicity of channels using a single detector."
"Upper bounds on error probability are derived for data transmission systems which are subjected to gaussian noise and to the removal of the low-frequency components of the signal. This error probability can be quite low for random data, even though the eye pattern is closed. Both standard format and partial response signaling are considered, as are binary and multilevel alphabets. Numerical results are given for a high-pass filter containing a single pole and for a cascade of several such identical filters."
"We give a new and powerful method for the direct solution of circuit design problems. The method begins with a prespecified topology and some or all elements undetermined in value. The designer imposes on the circuit any desired set of node-pair voltages, branch currents, or driving point and transfer immittances. Values of circuit elements that satisfy the constraints are directly calculated. This direct method of solution avoids the usual iterative analysis-optimization schemes, reducing computer times by up to three orders of magnitude. A linear set of design equations is formulated by choosing undetermined element currents and node voltages as the variables. Singular elements are introduced to impose the desired constraints. Inequality as well as equality constraints are permitted. Element values are determined from the solution of these equations. In this paper we emphasize our method of solution in relation to dc networks."
"This paper outlines a proposal for a miniature form of laser beam circuitry. Index of refraction changes of the order of 10−2 or 10−3 in a substrate such as glass allow guided laser beams of width near 10 microns. Photolithographic techniques may permit simultaneous construction of complex circuit patterns. This paper also indicates possible miniature forms for a laser, modulator, and hybrids. If realized, this new art would facilitate isolating the laser circuit assembly from thermal, mechanical, and acoustic ambient changes through small overall size; economy should ultimately result."
"We study the transmission properties of a guide consisting of a dielectric rod with rectangular cross section, surrounded by several dielectrics of smaller refractive indices. This guide is suitable for integrated optical circuitry because of its size, single-mode operation, mechanical stability, simplicity, and precise construction. After making some simplifying assumptions, we solve Maxwell's equations in closed form and find, that, because of total internal reflection, the guide supports two types of hybrid modes which are essentially of the TEM kind polarized at right angles. Their attenuations are comparable to that of a plane wave traveling in the material of which the rod is made. If the refractive indexes are chosen properly, the guide can support only the fundamental modes of each family with any aspect ratio of the guide cross section. By adding thin lossy layers, the guide presents higher loss to one of those modes. As an alternative, the guide can be made to support only one of the modes if part of the surrounding dielectrics is made a low impedance medium. Finally, we determine the coupling between parallel guiding rods of slightly different sizes and dielectrics; at wavelengths around one micron, 3-dB directional couplers, a few hundred microns long, can be achieved with separations of the guides about the same as their widths (a few microns)."
"Light transmission through a curved dielectric rod of rectangular cross section embedded in different dielectrics is analyzed in closed, though approximate form. We distinguish three ranges: (i) Small cross section guides such as a thin glass ribbon surrounded by air—Making its width 1 percent of the wavelength, most of the power travels outside of the glass; the attenuation coefficient of the guide is two orders of magnitude smaller than that of glass, and the radius of curvature that doubles the straight guide loss is around 10,000Λ. (ii) Medium cross section guide for integration optics—It is only a few microns on the side and capable of guiding a single mode either in low loss bends with short radii of curvature or in a high Q closed loop useful for filters. Q's of the order of 108 are theoretically achievable in loops with radii ranging from 0.04 to 1 mm, if the percentage refractive index difference between guide and surrounding dielectric lies between 0.1 and 0.01. (iii) Large cross section guides—They are multimode and are used in fiber optics. Conversion to higher order modes are found more significant than radiation loss resulting from curvature."
"This paper describes a computer analysis of the propagating modes of a rectangular dielectric waveguide. The analysis is based on an expansion of the electromagnetic field in terms of a series of circular harmonics, that is, Bessel and modified Bessel functions multiplied by trigonometric functions. The electric and magnetic fields inside the waveguide core are matched to those outside the core at appropriate points on the boundary to yield equations which are then solved on a computer for the propagation constants and field configurations of the various modes. The paper presents the results of the computations in the form of curves of the propagation constants and as computer generated mode patterns. The propagation curves are presented in a form which makes them refractive-index independent as long as the difference of the index of the core and the surrounding medium is small, the case which applies to integrated optics. In addition to those for small index difference, it also gives results for larger index differences such as might be encountered for microwave applications."
"The direction-changing capability of electromagnetic waveguides may be limited not only by mode conversion but also by radiation if the transverse field extends indefinitely into a freely propagating region. This paper gives new, more accurate expressions for the permitted bending radius with respect to mode conversion, using coupled-wave theory to categorize the wide variety of transmission media possible. This paper also makes a suggestion for estimating the permitted bending radius when radiation is a limitation. In single-mode “open” waveguides that have transverse fields extending indefinitely into a freely propagating region (such as a dielectric waveguide), the permitted bending radius is limited by radiation effects, whereas in either the open or completely shielded multimode waveguides, the permitted bending radius is usually limited by mode conversion."
"Parallel-traveling waves can interact with complete power transfer even though they have different phase constants, provided that the coupling is periodic. This paper outlines some possible applications of this phenomenon, including mode transforming devices, frequency-selective filters in the microwave and laser wavelength regions, and parametric amplifiers or converters. This paper also gives some coupled-wave equations for interactions in a nonlinear medium and a generalization of the Tien conditions for parametric wave interaction."
"The effect of the wall and the dielectric losses on the operation of a rectangular waveguide at frequencies in the cutoff region was investigated both theoretically and experimentally. A new measurement technique that permits determining the electrical properties of metals and dielectrics at microwave frequencies was developed from these investigations."
"This paper analyses the coupling of electromagnetic modes at the junction between straight and continuously curved rectangular waveguides. The method of solution is based on an integral equation formulation, applicable for sharp as well as gradual bends. Such quantities as the average power transmitted or reflected into each of the various modes propagating in the straight and curved waveguide sections are readily obtained. The article presents the results of representative calculations for the two types of waveguide bends. These include graphs of the energy distribution in the transmitted and reflected modes as a function of dimensionless ratios for a sharp bend; the range of values considered allows immediate application of the results to standard C-band waveguides. The gradual bend example uses parameters encountered in the waveguide connections to an antenna in a typical microwave relay network."
"A lens system for a periodic light-beam waveguide is proposed and analyzed in which gas is enclosed in a circular cylinder heated with a cos 2φ temperature distribution. We show that this temperature distribution may be produced by cutting a cylindrical hole in the center of a square block which has two opposite sides of equal temperature above the ambient temperature, and two sides of a lower temperature. Heat conduction across the gas produces an index of refraction variation which, in two orthogonal azimuthal planes, increases or decreases as the radius squared. The effect of thermal convection is analyzed by solving the governing equations as an expansion in powers of the Rayleigh number; the solution reveals that convection effects can be made negligible over a practical range of lens parameters. The major attributes of the lens system are that only temperature controls are required and the aberrations associated with thermal convection can be readily minimized."
"This paper discusses an analysis of the radiation from a parallel-plate waveguide to determine the effects of loading the waveguide with dielectric plugs near the aperture. We devote special attention to the situation in which the higher order modes, generated by the aperture discontinuity, propagate inside the dielectric plug but are evanescent in the unloaded waveguide region. We show that the dielectric plug may function as a resonant cavity for this type of wave mode. When one of these modes is at resonance, it is strongly excited by the incident wave; the presence of this resonance is manifested by the appearance of sharp spikes in the reflection coefficient either as a function of the frequency or the plug thickness. We also discuss the relation between the resonances in a single waveguide and in array configuration."
"Dielectric loss is important in integrated microwave and millimeter wave circuits which require small attenuation. Such circuits are usually built with microstrip or suspended microstrip transmission lines. This paper shows that the dielectric loss, the filling factor of the microstrip, and the stored field energy in the dielectric substrate can be computed from the partial derivative ∂U/∂∊r where U is the total electric field energy and ∊r the relative dielectric constant of the substrate. It also shows that the effective loss tangent is determined by the partial derivative ∂∊eff/∂∊r where ∊eff is the effective dielectric constant of the microstrip. Useful design formulas for computing the dielectric loss are given for the most important cases."
"This paper considers the deterioration in performance of angle-modulated systems resulting from interchannel interference. We show that with band-limited white gaussian noise modulation (simulating modulation by a frequency division multiplex signal), we can derive an explicit expression for the spectral density of the baseband interchannel interference when two or more PM waves interfere with each other. We show that, if the interference is co-channel, maximum interference occurs at the lowest baseband frequency present in the system and we can derive upper and lower bounds to this minimum baseband signal-to-interference ratio. For high enough modulation index, we show that this minimum signal-to-interference ratio is proportional to the cube of the modulation index and that phase modulation can be used with advantage in interference limited systems. We do not consider the effects of linear filters on angle-modulated systems, but give some results about the effect of adjacent channel interference when the interference is in the passband of the receiver."
"We calculate the granular quantizing noise for a delta modulator that has unequal positive and negative step sizes. The asymmetry leads to a highly colored noise spectrum. We perform this calculation by adding a ramp function of time to the input of a symmetrical coder. The resulting formulas can also be used for uniform DPCM and PCM coders. The idle-channel spectrum consists of discrete lines which scatter somewhat irregularly in amplitude and frequency; they can be regarded as the result of sampling (aliasing) a sawtooth wave. These lines are phase-modulated by a coder input. For a sinusoidal input, discrete side frequencies are produced which again have an irregular progression of amplitudes. Gaussian inputs lead to gaussian line shapes; the lines broaden as input power is increased. A totally white spectrum (as is often assumed in connection with delta-modulation-system considerations) cannot be attained, however, before the onset of slope overload. We give a numerical example that uses a coder suitable for telephone applications. One can see that step asymmetry can be very advantageous in attaining low noise."
"This article describes a method for accurately calculating the output spectrum of a quantizer. The method was developed for known expressions defining the output spectrum of an arbitrary quantizer with gaussian input of arbitrary bandshape. Results obtained for a variety of conditions, however, suggest that the calculations are valid even though the input has only a minor gaussian component. When sampling is also used, at the Nyquist rate or a little higher, the quantizing noise folded into the input band is almost flat even when the input bandshape is sharply peaked. When interference at the input is increased, the quantizer (preceded by AGC) appears to operate like an increasingly noisy linear transducer up to a breaking point beyond which its performance (for small signals) degrades rapidly and becomes difficult to analyze."
"This paper is a compendium of results based on a simple observation: two information symbols can be appended to certain nonbinary BCH codes without affecting the guaranteed minimum distance of these codes. We give two formulations which achieve this result; the second yields information regarding the weights of coset leaders for the original BCH codes. Single-error-correcting Reed-Solomon codes with the added information symbols yield perfect codes for the Hamming metric. We use these lengthened Reed-Solomon codes as building blocks for perfect single-error-correcting codes in another metric."
"A fundamental problem in the design of data transmission systems is the synthesis of pulse-shaping networks which satisfy specifications in both the time and frequency domains. This paper considers the problem of designing a network to shape an arbitrary input pulse into a band-limited pulse having minimum intersymbol interference. The design procedure uses the zeros of the network transfer function to achieve the band-limiting properties (using a modified Temes and Gyi constraint) while the transfer function poles are optimized with a computer to give the desired time response. By limiting the specifications on the shaped pulse to an absolute minimum, very accurate results are achieved with simple networks. Some sample designs and experimental results are included. For example, an 11th order transfer function is designed to shape rectangular pulses for a synchronous baseband pulse amplitude modulation system. The shaped pulses have a bandwidth 20 percent in excess of the Nyquist bandwidth and a theoretical worst-case distortion of 2.1 percent. An active realization of this transfer function achieved a worst-case distortion of about 2.5 percent."
"This paper describes a model that generates on-off speech patterns representative of those in experimental two-way telephone conversations. The model assumes a conversant to occupy one of three speaking or one of three silent states. Transitions among the states arc determined by Poisson processes governed by six parameters (one for each state). The validity of the model is tested by comparing the model computer simulation of 16 conversations with 16 real conversations. Cumulative distribution functions are compared for ten events (such as talkspurts, pauses, mutual silences, and so on) defined on the speech patterns. The model yields good fits to all events except “speech before interruption;” when an interruption occurs, a model speaker tends to interrupt the other's talkspurt later than a real speaker does. Theoretical behavior of the model is also studied. All events consist of concatenations of exponentially distributed “state durations,” even though most events are not themselves exponential. For some purposes, the exponential distribution is a satisfactory empirical fit to talkspurts, but not to pauses. Possible applications of the model include studying people's motivations to talk and fall silent on different circuits, and predicting statistical behavior of voice operated devices on the circuits."
"This paper examines a particular kind of diversity system, under conditions of multipath fading, when there is interference from either random noise or from an unwanted station. The transmitter sends a pilot wave along with the modulated signal. The receiver's mixer stage heterodynes the signal with the pilot (instead of with a locally generated tone). Doppler phase distortion, which affects the signal and pilot in nearly the same way, cancels out during mixing. The diversity system with N antennas adds the outputs from N such mixers. This kind of diversity tends to add the N signal outputs in phase, while random noise components as well as certain other interferences add powerwise. In the presence of an interfering station, diversity smooths out amplitude fluctuations. It thereby reduces the probability that the interference will override the desired station."
"The everyday contact with customers of the Bell System is carried out in approximately 2100 business offices. The assessment of such a large number of offices makes the continued improvement of formal office measurement schemes attractive. This paper describes an analysis of models for time usage in Bell System business offices. In addition, it was hoped that these models would be potentially useful for interoffice comparisons. A model for single offices is described first. This is followed by the development of a multioffice model which is constructed in such a way that it has good statistical characteristics and attempts to make the office comparisons as fair as possible. The inputs to the multioffice model are: (i) the gross time used by each business office, (ii) the number of contacts that each office had with business and residence customers, (iii) the number of accounts carried by each office, and (iv) certain characteristics which were judged to reflect the nature of the exogenous demand put on the office, for example, percent of business main telephones."
"This paper describes the experimental realization of a recently proposed scanning reference beam technique for hologram transmission. The apparatus uses an extremely simple method for obtaining the two different but phase-locked optical frequencies necessary for the heterodyne mode of operation. The paper shows reconstructions obtained from transmitted holograms of two- and three-dimensional objects, analyzes the signal-to-noise ratio and resolution attainable with this technique, derives a new general theorem concerning the detectability of the interference between two arbitrary beams, and discusses the theorem's applications to this system."
"We study the conditions for the unique response in a class of nonlinear control systems subject to random inputs using statistical linearization approximation. As in the case of sinusoidal inputs, we show that jump phenomena may occur if the inverse vector locus of the linear part passes through certain regions on the complex plane, where the regions are defined by the characteristics of nonlinear part. Such jump phenomena regions for several typical nonlinearities are given; we also show that, among a restricted class of nonlinearities, the saturation and dead zone produce the largest jump phenomena regions. A new result concerning the validity of statistical linearization approximation of nonlinear control systems is also presented. We show that the condition for the uniqueness of response to a given input in a nonlinear feedback system obtained through statistical linearization approximation is compatible with a related rigorous result, thus providing additional confidence in the applicability of statistical linearization."
"This paper describes an experimental method for encoding television signals which takes advantage of the frame-to-frame correlation to reduce transmission bit rate. The technique encodes only those elements that change between successive frames instead of encoding every element of every frame. We have demonstrated the method in real-time using the head-and-shoulder view of a person in animated conversation as the picture source, such as is likely to be encountered in a visual communication system. An average transmission rate of one bit per picture element gives quality comparable with standard eight-bit PCM transmission."
"Dither signals may be added to coarsely quantized picture signals to mask undesirable contours. We show that a class of differential quantizers is equivalent to ordinary quantizers with respect to the design of dither signals. We give a design method for a number of deterministic and random dither waveforms and evaluate their visibility using a simple model of threshold vision."
"Correct tracking between the transmitter and receiver is difficult to maintain when a long integrator time constant is used. We describe a differential quantizer which has a digital integrator; this integrator enables perfect tracking to be achieved at the output of the integrator without any adjustments. The differential quantizer gives high quality pictures when seven, eight, and nine quantizer output levels are used. We present a scheme for transmitting the nine-level signal at the rate of three bits per picture element. Picture quality is improved significantly by adding low-amplitude dither patterns to the input signal to mask contours. The coder is more susceptible to transmission errors than coders having an analogue integrator with a short time constant; we discuss two methods for reducing the susceptibility."
"This paper presents a new method for computing the parameters which determine the differential equations governing a linear time-invariant system with multiple inputs and outputs. Unlike earlier approaches the method presented does not involve computation of the impulse response. One of the main advantages of this method is its easy generalization to the case when the given data is contaminated with noise."
"In this paper we consider the synthesis of sequential machines by networks of a fixed module with delay. We show that every binary input n state sequential machine has an isomorphic realization using at most p copies of a module with 2r + 1 inputs, where p is the smaller of ${2r \\over 2r - 1} (n^{1+log r^2} + 4n^{1+log r^4)$ and $r2^[n/r]$. ([x] is the smallest integer ≧ x.)"
"This paper considers the propagation of scalar (acoustic) waves from a single-frequency point source imbedded in a medium with random refractive index, in contrast with the usual plane-wave case in which the source is far removed from the medium. With the index being a statistically homogeneous and isotropic function of position, but not a function of time, the average complex field $u_{o}(r) = \\langle u(r)\\rangle$ and the spatial covariance $\\langle u_{i}(r)u*_{i}(\\rho;)\\rangle$ of the fluctuation field ui(r) = u(r) - uo(r) are calculated. Beyond a few correlation lengths from the source, the average field can be approximated by a spherical wave with the same complex wavenumber found in the plane-wave case. A near-source wave number is also obtained. Under an improved far-field condition, the spatial covariance is reduced to spectral integration formulas for both transverse and longitudinal separation of the receiving points. These formulas reveal that correlation lengths are much longer in the point-source case than in the plane-wave case, even though the relative variances are the same. We illustrate this result with plots for an exponential index spectrum and for a constant spectrum."
"Analytical, experimental, and computer simulation results are given for the error spectrum of a delta modulator when probed by stationary, band limited, gaussian noise. These three complementary methods are used to increase our quantitative understanding of the nonlinear system with memory. The error is conveniently split into two components: one linearly dependent on the input signal and one linearly independent of the input signal. In order to isolate these two types of errors we use two measurement techniques. For purposes of analysis we show that the delta modulator can be replaced by an equivalent linear system with additive noise at its output which is linearly uncorrelated with the input. The equivalent linear system may be approximated by using methods involving statistical linearization or the deterministic describing function. Alternately, the equivalent linear system may be obtained from computer simulation."
"We present a statistical analysis of a single integration delta modulation system in which slope overload effects are negligible. In defining the delta modulation signal ensemble, we identify a binary phase parameter and show that when this parameter is random, the signal statistics are stationary, provided the input is stationary. Thus the delta modulation correlation functions depend on a single time variable and have Fourier transforms that are the power spectra of the delta modulation signals. After deriving the delta modulation correlation statistics and power density spectra, we use these functions to investigate the properties of the delta modulation granular quantizing noise. We demonstrate the ratio of input signal power to the quantizing noise power of three signals that approximate the system input. These signals are the integrated delta modulation signal, the signal at the output of the ideal low-pass interpolation filter usually considered in delta modulation studies, and the signal at the output of the optimum interpolation filter. We determine the properties of this filter by referring to the derived spectral density functions."
"In a system designed to quantize the output of an analog data source and to transmit this information over a digital channel, errors are introduced by the quantization and transmission processes. Quantization resolution can be improved by using all positions available in a data stream to carry information, or transmission accuracy can be improved if some of the positions are used for redundancy with error-correcting codes. The problem is to determine, from a system viewpoint, the proper allocation of the available positions in order to reduce the average system error rather than concentrate exclusively on either the quantization problem or the transmission problem. We develop a criterion for the performance of data transmission systems based upon the numerical error that occurs between the analog source and the destination. The criterion, termed the average system error, is used to evaluate and compare possible system configurations. Significant-bit packed codes are defined. These codes are useful because their protection can be matched to the numerical significance of the data and their redundancy can be sufficiently small to maintain good quantization resolution. The average system error resulting from representative system designs is numerically evaluated and compared."
"We discuss a computational algorithm for numerically evaluating the z-transform of a sequence of N samples. This algorithm has been named the chirp z-transform algorithm. Using this algorithm one can efficiently evaluate the z-transform at M points in the z-plane which lie on circular or spiral contours beginning at any arbitrary point in the z-plane. The angular spacing of the points is an arbitrary constant; M and N are arbitrary integers. The algorithm is based on the fact that the values of the z-transform on a circular or spiral contour can be expressed as a discrete convolution. Thus one can use well-known high-speed convolution techniques to evaluate the transform efficiently. For M and N moderately large, the computation time is roughly proportional to (N + M) log2 (N + M) as opposed to being proportional to N · M for direct evaluation of the z-transform at M points. Applications discussed include: enhancement of poles in spectral analysis, high resolution narrow-band frequency analysis, interpolation of band-limited waveforms, and the conversion of a base 2 fast Fourier transform program into an arbitrary radix fast Fourier transform program."
"This paper extends, in several directions, some of the results of earlier work concerned with the existence and uniqueness of solutions of the dc equations of nonlinear transistor networks. In particular, here we develop techniques which enable us to deal directly with a more complicated transistor model."
"This paper presents a new automatic technique for complete linear characterization of transistors and general two-port devices from standard insertion and bridging measurements. This technique includes a calibration sequence and mathematical transformation to provide parameters independent of actual test set impedances, as well as a special hardware design which allows for convenient self-measurement of the test set impedances. Knowledge of these impedances is used to reduce the measured quantities to arbitrary device parameters referenced entirely to a set of calibration standards. This independence of the parameters from the measuring set impedances allows for considerable reduction in the design constraints on the test set impedances and device connecting jigs."
"A computer-operated transmission measuring set has been developed for the 50 Hz to 250 MHz frequency range. Use of the computer in this system has significantly effected the test set design and the measurements obtainable. Compared with previously available transmission measuring sets, the computer-operated set increases speed more than 300 : 1. This speed, along with state-of-the-art accuracy and increases in operating range, flexibility, and convenience, enables the set to be used for types and quantities of measurements previously not practical. It has already been applied to laboratory and production testing with resulting improvements in the quality and reliability of manufactured product designs. In addition to the directly measured quantities of insertion loss and phase, the set provides insertion delay, impedance, and two-port parameters as derived quantities. The two-port data conversion program provides H, T, Z, G, T, S, ABCD and ABCD−1 parameters with a number of useful options. Results of transmission measurements, impedance measurements, and two-port measurements are presented. Some of the error mechanisms and means of measuring them are discussed. Further development of centralized measuring facilities, with the computer operated set as a basic element, is discussed."
"This paper describes an instrument for measuring attenuation statistics on an earth-space path simultaneously at 16 and 30 GHz; the high attenuations result from heavy rain. The sun is used as a signal source during the time of day when the sun ordinarily is visible; a measuring range of more than 30 dB is achieved at both frequencies. The brightness temperature of the atmosphere also is measured both day and night. At night the antenna beam is stationary on the local meridian. Daytime brightness temperatures in conjunction with direct attenuation measurements are used to determine the equivalent absorber temperatures which are necessary for the reduction of night brightness temperatures to attenuation values. This paper discusses the measurements made during the first 12 months of operation and gives statistics of these measurements and an analysis of errors in the system."
"In this paper we present the theory of mode selection by use of a thin metal film in the laser cavity and we derive formulae both by a rigorous method and by using a lumped-circuit approach. Experiments performed with a 500-mW argon ion laser showed that 350 mW or 70 percent of the multimode power could be obtained in single-frequency operation using this technique. Somewhat lower efficiencies were obtained with a neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet laser. We compare this with other mode-selection techniques."
"Microstrips, transmission lines of metallic layers deposited on a dielectric substrate, are very useful for the microwave and millimeter wave hybrid integrated circuits required for solid-state radio systems because of their simplicity and planar structure. To design hybrid integrated circuits with microstrips requires computation or measurement of the impedance, the attenuation, the guide wavelength, and the unloaded Q of the line. These parameters can be obtained from the effective dielectric constant and the characteristic impedance of the corresponding air line. This paper gives the exact design data for all line parameters for the most important cases. We report the impedance and attenuation measurements performed on microstrips. Satisfactory agreement is obtained with theoretical results based on conformal mapping with logarithmic derivatives of theta functions and expressions involving the partial derivatives of the impedance with respect to independent line parameters."
"Two mirrors, 15 centimeters in diameter and 25 meters apart, form an optical delay line which can store two gaussian beams for 342 round trips or 60 microseconds. This paper reports experiments which studied the intensity profiles, the phase fronts, and the cross scattering between these beams after their retrieval from the delay line. In certain respects, the delay line simulates a multiple beam guide made of 684 mirror periscopes. The experimental results permit an estimate of the beam capacity, the crosstalk, and the transmission length of such a guide."
"We compand a one-bit coder by increasing its step size when a string of equal bits is detected in the transmitted code. To code and decode each string we use a weight sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5… 5, the weight returns to unity when the string ends. Stability considerations restrict the choice of weights but those proposed give adequate stability as well as improve the signal-to-noise ratio about 5 dB. The weighted coder has a wide tolerance to changes of input, so that a ±3 dB change from the design value is hardly visible to most observers. Matching weights at the transmitter and receiver is uncritical because mismatches appear as small changes of contrast rather than as noise. The circuit is easily implemented because it is tolerant to changes of component values. There is a description of an experimental coder and decoder, together with subjective and objective measures of performance. Signal-to-noise ratios of 50 dB are reported."
"A new electronic camera tube has been developed for Picturephone® visual telephone applications; with minor modifications it should also be suitable for conventional television systems. The image sensing target of the new camera consists of a planar array of reversed biased silicon photodiodes which are accessed by a low energy scanning electron beam similar to that used in a conventional vidicon. This paper presents a description of the operating principles and an analysis of the sensitivity and resolution capabilities of the new silicon diode array camera tube. We also give the detailed experimental results obtained with the tubes. The gamma of a silicon diode array camera tube is unity and its spectral response is virtually uniform over the wavelength range from 0.45 to 0.90 micron with an effective quantum yield greater than 50 percent. For a 13.4 millimeter square target the silicon diode array camera tube's sensitivity is 20 μamp foot-candles of faceplate illumination with normal incandescent illumination or 1.3 μamp per foot-candle with fluorescent illumination; with a center-to-center diode spacing of 15 micron it's modulation transfer function is greater than 60 percent for a spatial frequency of 14 cycles per millimeter. Typical dark currents for a 13.4 millimeter square target are in the range of 5 to 50 nanoamperes."
"This paper proposes a technique for the television transmission of a hologram of a two-dimensional transparency. The spatial resolution required on the camera tube is reduced by a factor of four compared with the transmission of a conventional off-axis reference beam hologram. The resolution required is therefore no higher than that required for the direct transmission of the transparency itself. Implementation of the proposed arrangement should be easy. Three holograms formed with an on-axis reference beam are transmitted. The phase of the reference beam assumes the values 0°, 120°, and 240° for the first, second, and third hologram, respectively. The carrier-frequency hologram is “synthesized” from these three on-axis holograms at the receiver. The technique has the further advantage that the undesirable zero-order terms are eliminated."
"A sliding-scale coder for television signals was built which extends the range of the quantizing scale by processing the input signal twice when the input signal exceeds a prescribed threshold. On the second pass the quantizing range is effectively moved outward to reduce the errors in coding large signals. Double processing nearly triples the number of quantizing levels of a basic three-bit coder. Measurements of the number of extra bits required, that is, those in excess of three-bits per sample show that they may be accomodated on a three-bit per sample transmission channel by reducing the sampling rate five percent. The experimental coder generates 19 quantizing levels. Its performance approaches that of a seven-bit pulse code modulation coder. Busyness or streaking, common to most three-bit differential type coders, is eliminated. Acceptable pictures are reproduced with ±5 dB changes in the input signal's range. Over this range the signal-to-noise ratio of the reproduced pictures varies from 47 dB to 54 dB and the rise-time of a regenerated step-signal varies from 1 microsecond to 1.45 microsecond when the input signals rise-time is limited to 1 microsecond."
"We consider the problem of the transmission of discrete-time analog data with a variety of fidelity criteria. The outputs of the analog source are assumed to belong to a bounded set. Bounds on the minimum achievable average distortion for memoryless sources are derived both for the case where the coding delay is infinite (an extension of the Shannon Theory) and also for some cases where the coding delay is finite. Several examples are given, for which the upper and lower bounds coincide. Further, we discuss the case where the assumption of the existence of a probabilistic model for the source is dropped. We adopt as our fidelity criterion the supremum over all possible source-output n-sequences x, of the conditional expectation of the distortion given x (“guaranteed distortion”). The Shannon Theory is not directly applicable in determining the minimum guaranteed distortion. We do obtain results for two important cases. Some generalizations and applications are also discussed."
"We consider the problem of transmission of digital data over a discrete-time Gaussian channel with the use of a Gaussian feedback channel. We are particularly interested in the case where the signal-to-noise ratio in the feedback channel is finite. By making use of simple extension of P. Elias' scheme for transmitting analog data over this channel with feedback, we show that it is possible at some transmission rates to increase the error-exponent (reliability) compared to the error-exponent found by C. E. Shannon for the one-way channel. In particular at transmission rate zero, we show that the error-exponent can be improved by a factor of 1 + [ρ(1 + ρ)], where ρ and ρ are the forward and feedback signal-to-noise ratios respectively."
"This paper contains a perturbation theory which is applicable to the scattering losses suffered by guided modes of a dielectric slab waveguide as a consequence of imperfections of the waveguide wall. The development of the theory occupies the bulk of the paper. Numerical results appear in Sections VI and VIII to which a reader less interested in the theory is referred. The theory allows us to conclude that random deviations of the waveguide wall in the order of 1 percent, for guides designed to guide an optical wave of Λo = 1μ wavelength, can cause scattering losses of 10 percent per centimeter or 0.46 dB per centimeter. A systematic sinusoidal deviation of the waveguide wall can cause total exchange of energy from the lowest order to the first order guided mode in a distance of approximately 1 cm if the amplitude of the sinusoidal deviation from perfect straightness is only 0.5 percent of the thickness of the guide. An rms deviation of one of the waveguide walls of 9Å causes a radiation loss of 10 dB per kilometer (index difference 1 percent, guide width 2.5μ)."
"This paper presents the theory of mode conversion and radiation losses of the lowest order circular electric mode in a dielectric rod (fiber) waveguide and its confirmation by a microwave experiment. The theoretical results were obtained from a theory whose detailed development has been presented in an earlier paper. The microwave experiment was carried out at approximately 50 GHz. The optical fiber with imperfect walls was simulated by a teflon rod of 1 cm diameter and 1 m length with a periodically corrugated wall. Mode conversion was observed in excellent agreement with theory. The observed radiation losses are somewhat less than the prediction of the perturbation theory, but the agreement is quite good. The direction and width of the far-field radiation pattern was observed in agreement with theory."
"In an earlier paper I described a perturbation theory of the radiation losses of a dielectric slab waveguide. The statistical treatment of the radiation losses was based on the correlation function of the wall distortion. This paper discusses the results of the radiation loss theory in terms of the power spectrum of the function describing the thickness of the slab. We found that only those mechanical frequencies Θ of the power spectrum contribute to the radiation loss that fall into the range βo - k < Θ < βo + k. (βo = propagation constant of guided mode, k = free space propagation constant.) The mechanical frequencies near both end points of this mechanical frequency range contribute more to the radiation loss than the region well inside of this range. We also discuss the far-field radiation pattern caused by a strictly sinusoidal wall distortion."
"The noise waveforms found on voice bandwidth telephone channels are generally recognized to be non-gaussian in their amplitude distribution. This paper presents data which suggests that a simple exponential is a good function to describe amplitude densities in the extreme tails. A comprehenisve model of impulse noise as viewed on trunk groups is then presented. The model relates the distributions of impulse noise levels and impulse noise counts."
"This paper is concerned with the identification of a fairly general class of nonlinear operators using corrupted measurements. A precise mathematical definition of identification is presented and the relationship between a priori information and identification is studied. The a priori information is represented as a subset of a metric space of nonlinear operators. Necessary and sufficient conditions are developed to answer the question “When is identification possible?”"
"The theory of cylindrical magnetic domains provides conditions governing the size and stability of circular cylindrical magnetic domains in plates of uniaxial magnetic materials together with an estimate of the range of applicability of these conditions. The results of the theory are directly applicable to the design of cylindrical domain devices. Computation to first and second order of the energy variation resulting from general small deviation in the domain shape from an initially circular shape yields the conditions governing domain size and stability. The physical origin of the various terms in the energy expansion is examined in detail. A graph from which many domain size and stability properties may be obtained summarizes the results of the energy variation calculation. The minimum theoretically attainable domain diameter is approximately σw/πM2s, where σw is the wall energy density and Ms, is the saturation magnetization. For domains to exist, the effective anisotropy field must be greater than 4πMs."
"This report covers the principal physical and transmission characteristics of the Bell System customer loop plant. Items covered include a statistical characterization of physical composition, measured and calculated transmission characteristics, and measured noise and crosstalk performance. A survey conducted in 1964 provided the data base for this report and comparisons of data obtained from a similar survey in 1960 illustrate that, in many respects the composition of loop plant changes only slowly with time. Consequently, the 1964 survey results are believed to be representative of today's plant. The types of analyses presented in this paper are of increasing interest to certain Bell System customers because of the increasing number and types of services provided over local telephone facilities."
"We present analytical methods (i) for calculating microwave radio refraction for negative and positive initial ray angles accounting for station height and (ii) for determining refraction-corrected ranges of antenna pointing azimuth within which mutual interference with geostationary satellites in shared frequency bands is likely."
"The definition, properties, and application of an extended correlation function of two random variables involving two common parameters are described and applied to mobile radio systems. The correlation functions of a predetection diversity combined signal (using a scheme of phase equalizing by multiple heterodyning) and of a directional antenna array signal are derived with the help of the extended correlation function. These correlation functions can be used to determine parameter values giving minimum correlation between two signals desirable for diversity systems. One can also obtain the power spectra by taking the Fourier transform of these correlation functions. Thus extended correlation functions promise to be useful."
"A series of papers which appeared in the September 1969 issue of the Bell System Technical Journal treated the theory of dielectric waveguides and stressed the potential use of such media for optical communication circuits.1−4 Here we report on the realization of low-loss, thin glass films which can be used for circuit fabrication. Methods of preparing planar films and waveguides having rectangular cross section are described along with the techniques used in evaluating their optical characteristics."
"We first briefly review the principles of frequency sampling filters. We also show that the “conventional” frequency sampling filter can be modified simply to give an output which is the Hilbert transform of the original output. Both the original and transformed outputs are made available by the use of the simple complex number resonator described. The relationship between this system and filtering by Fourier transforming is shown."
"Most of the light scattered from high-reflectivity dielectric mirrors is radiated into directions close to the reflected beam. We measured the angular power distribution at angles between 0.01° and 1° from the beam axis by scanning with a narrow slit. From this a linear structure function is calculated for coherence lengths between 20 microns and 1 millimeter, assuming isotropic surface statistics. The corresponding power density decreases with the third power of the scattering angle. The power outside a given radius and the power density is plotted for various wavelengths and distances."
"Subjective measurements were made of the apparent increase in noise level which occurs when television pictures are frame-repeated. We show that in all cases of practical interest this increase is small (less than 3 dB), that it is dependent on the type of scanning (greater increases with line-sequential than with line-interlaced scanning), and that it is relatively independent of the picture signal-to-noise ratio. At smaller numbers of repetitions — the region which shows most promise for practical schemes of bandwidth saving — the increase in apparent noise level with increased frame-repetition is most rapid."
"Three sources of timing noise in a self-timed regenerative PCM repeater, namely, tank circuit mistuning, amplitude to phase conversion, and pulse shape, were studied both experimentally and theoretically. We discuss how these noises accumulate and combine along a chain of repeaters. The theoretical work is from the viewpoint of frequency analysis which leads easily to the spectrum of the timing noise. We first give a simple form of this theory applicable in a number of cases, and then a more general form useful in other cases, which shows the approximations and limitations of the simple theory. We found that the spectrum of timing noise caused by tank circuit mistuning has no energy at zero frequency and because of this fact, timing noise from this source does not build up indefinitely along a chain of repeaters but soon reaches a limit. On the other hand, the spectrum of timing noise caused by amplitude to phase conversion does have energy at zero frequency; thus, timing noise from this source increases indefinitely along a repeater chain. Some of the timing noise is attributable to pulse shape alone and in some cases may include a very low frequency part. This latter comes about through the small energy near the harmonics of the pulse rate in the tuned circuit response and the aliasing of this energy down to very low frequencies by the sampling process used in measuring the phase deviation or in generating the retiming pulses."
"It appears that stable synchronization of large digital transmission networks should be easy, granted accurate clocks, buffers which accept pulses at the incoming rate and deliver them at the local clock rate, and adequate delay for making frames coincide. An electric network analog of a simple linear system in which the clock frequency depends on the fullness of buffers and the departure of frequency setting from midsetting makes it obvious that the system is stable. System frequency should be made to depend strongly on accurate or master clocks; criteria are given for choosing parameters to achieve this. Strategies are given for periodic infrequent adjustments to compensate for changes in transmission time, and for adding new clocks to the network. The practical realization of a synchronized network calls for more information concerning variations of transmission time and for adequate components, particularly, buffers and adjustable delay devices."
"Bode developed some explicit formulas in terms of the poles and zeros of the transfer impedance function for each element of the first and second degree constant resistance lattice structures. To extend work in this area, we derive explicit formulas for two of Bode's structures using coupled coils; we give two new structures which avoid coupled coils. Illustrative examples show the usage of these formulas. Finally, we include a general procedure for synthesizing any physically realizable, rational transfer impedance function by a constant resistance lattice network. A flow chart aids in detailing this procedure. With the addition of these results, a general method for synthesizing any physically realizable, rational transfer impedance function with explicit formulas is complete. The explicit formulas method developed in this paper gives more rapid results and introduces fewer round-off errors than the step-by-step procedures used in the past."
"State of the art integrated circuits and ultrasonic delay lines can be combined to form batch-fabricated digital storage modules having random access to sequentially stored blocks of information. Greatest economy is indicated if such stores are designed for as high a bit rate as is technologically feasible, at present limited by the speed of available integrated circuitry. A store of optimum design will have a block size of approximately 1000 bits which, for a bit rate of 100 MHz, gives a maximum latency time of approximately 10 microseconds. Such designs are realizable with zero temperature coefficient material. The stores can be used as main memories for small computers or as fast transfer stores shuttling information between a slow external bulk memory and a very fast random access memory in large computers. A variety of accessing modes permit these stores to operate over a large range of access rates without requiring large buffer stores."
"We study two models of a system of queues served in cyclic order by a single server. In each model, the ith queue is characterized by general service time distribution function Hi(·) and Poisson input with parameter Λi. In the exhaustive service model, the server continues to serve a particular queue until the server becomes idle and there are no units waiting in that queue; at this time the server advances to and immediately starts service on the next nonempty queue in the cyclic order. The gating model differs from the exhaustive service model in that when the server advances to a nonempty queue, a gate closes behind the waiting units. Only those units waiting in front of the gate are served during this cycle, with the service of subsequent arrivals deferred to the next cycle. We find expressions for the mean number of units in a queue at the instant it starts service, the mean cycle time, and the Laplace-Stieltjes transform of the cycle time distribution function."
"We consider a coding-decoding scheme which can permit reliable data communication at rates up to the capacity of a discrete memoryless channel, and which offers a reasonable trade off between performance and complexity. The new scheme embodies algebraic and sequential coding-decoding stages. Data is initially coded by an algebraic (Reed-Solomon) encoder into blocks of N symbols, each symbol represented by n binary digits. The N n-bit symbols in a block are transmitted separately and independently through N parallel subsystems, each consisting of a sequential coder, an independent discrete memoryless channel, and a sequential decoder in tandem. Those coded n-bit symbols which would require the most sequential decoding computations are treated as erasures and decoded by a Reed-Solomon decoder. We show that the hybrid technique reduces the variability of the amount of sequential decoding computation. We also derive asymptotic results for the probabilities of error and buffer overflow as functions of the system complexity."
"We derive a new family of convolutional character-error-correcting codes which are a convolutional form of the Reed-Solomon block codes and as such have nonbinary symbols. We also derive a bound on the error correcting capabilities of these codes in which the error-correcting capability per constraint length grows approximately with the square root of the constraint length. When these codes are used on a binary channel they are effective for both random and burst error correction because a single character spans several channel digits. These codes have greater error-correcting capabilities than the Robinson-Bernstein self-orthogonal codes but are harder to decode. The single-character-error-correcting codes, when interleaved, are shown to be more powerful than the equivalent Hagelbarger code and appear to be simpler to implement. They are also slightly better than the interleaved version of Berlekamp's code. We discuss encoding and decoding algorithms and illustrate a simple decoding algorithm for some of the codes. These codes are closely related to the Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem block codes and share with them the decoding simplification for character erasures in place of errors. Any Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem decoding algorithm can be used to decode these codes."
"In this paper we present a theoretical analysis of the performance of an m-phase coherent phase-shift keyed system in the presence of random gaussian noise and interference. An explicit expression is given for the probability of error of the phase angle of the received signal; we show that this probability of error can be expressed as a converging power series. We show that the coefficients of this series are expressible in terms of well-known and well-tabulated functions, and we give methods of evaluating the character error rates of the systems. We also show that this error rate is minimum when all the interference power is concentrated in a single interferer, and that it attains its maximum [Pm]max when the total interference power is equally distributed amongst the K interferers. The limiting case when K goes to infinity is considered. The cases of K = 1, and m = 2, 4, 8, and 16 are treated in some detail, and the results are given graphically. The usefulness of the results presented in this paper is that the designer can have at his disposal very simple expressions with which to evaluate the performance of any given Coherent Phase-Shift Keyed system when the received signal is corrupted by both interference and random gaussian noise."
"In this paper we derive upper and lower bounds of the spectrum of a sinusoidal carrier phase modulated by gaussian noise having a rectangular power spectrum. It has been found in practice that such a random process adequately simulates for some purposes, a frequency division multiplex signal, a composite speech signal, and so on. We show that these upper and lower bounds of the spectrum are very close to each other if the root mean square phase deviation of the carrier is even moderately high. Also, a simple method called the saddle-point method can be used at all frequencies f to estimate the spectrum with less than ten percent error. We also show that the results obtained from the quasistatic approximation, often used in such cases, are too small for large f, and that this low-frequency approximation cannot be used in cases where the behavior on the tails is of importance."
"In a recent paper, the author analyzed and discussed the noise-like structure in images of diffuse objects in coherent illumination.∗ While the author's interest and discussion concerned objects viewed in reflection, a model illustrating a diffuse object was unfortunately shown in Fig. 1 as a granular transparency viewed in transmission. It turns out that the analysis presented is not sufficiently general to cover transparencies viewed in transmission. The object must be viewed in reflection because:"
"This issue is devoted to the development of a new broadband coaxial transmission system which provides a more efficient and economic use of bandwidth on existing and new coaxial cables than earlier systems. The new system, called the L-4 Carrier System, provides 3600 two-way message channels on each pair of coaxials. Improved methods of equalization control and fault location have been provided and new multiplex equipment to form the signal spectrum for transmission over the medium has been developed."
"The l-4 coaxial system is a new solid state broadband facility designed to transmit 3,600 long-haul message channels on standard 3/8-inch coaxial cable. This paper describes system design characteristics and operating features of the new system, discusses system power, protection switching, and fault location aspects, reviews the performance results from field trial and initial commercial service tests, and compares these results with predictions. This paper also summarizes the environmental factors and design concepts affecting the system's physical design."
"The line repeaters of the L-4 system represent a hierarchy of repeaters of increasing complexity: basic, regulating, and equalizing repeaters. Based on a building block philosophy, each of the more complex repeaters performs all of the functions of the less complex types plus additional functions of its own. The simplest, the basic repeater, is a plug-in unit with a shaped gain-frequency characteristic that compensates for the transmission loss of two miles of cable. The regulating repeater includes all of the components of the basic repeater plus two dynamic gain-regulating circuits and a deviation equalizer. Both repeaters include line building-out networks to compensate for departures from the nominal two-mile spacing. This paper develops the building block philosophy of the line repeaters and considers those aspects of the basic and regulating repeaters that contribute to load carrying capacity, reliability, noise figure, and modulation performance. It emphasizes the design features of the line repeaters that contribute to a fully-hardened system."
"The equalizing and main station repeaters, together with the L-4 control center and command looping circuits, provide for the equalization and remote fault location in the L-4 system. The use of pre- and postequalization procedures requires virtually identical circuits at the sending and receiving main station repeaters, while abbreviated versions of the same equipment are placed in up to two line equalizing repeaters per main section. In most cases these equalizing stations occur at approximately every twenty-fifth repeater in a completed system. The fault-locating circuits are distributed over the entire system and the control circuits required for their activation are located at the equalizing points."
"The equalizer remote-control system performs the role of a master control for the adjustable equalizers in the lines of an L-4 system. A control center located at an attended main station repeater may have jurisdiction over several hundred equalizers, some of which may be as distant as 300 miles. The required equalizer adjustments are determined from the relative powers of signals received from remotely controlled test oscillators at the equalizing locations. When necessary, the equalizers are remotely adjusted in discrete steps by means of commands sent out by the control center. Memory circuits associated with the equalizer networks maintain the network gain settings between adjustments. At each distant main station in a control system, a loop-back unit provides decoding and switching that control equalizers at the location and complete far-end looping paths to the lines to be equalized or checked. The looping paths pass the commands used to address the equalizing repeaters, which are located between the main station repeaters. The control system also comprises part of a fault-location scheme, which includes a monitoring oscillator at each repeater."
"This paper describes the electrical and physical characteristics of the solid-state devices developed for the L-4 system. These include new high frequency, planar, epitaxial, silicon transistors with low noise figures and intermodulation distortion for use in the various amplifiers. New diodes for power supply, surge protection, and modulation use were also developed."
"New terminal equipment has been developed to provide the six-mastergroup signal that the L-4 repeatered line is capable of carrying. A major component of this equipment is the MMX-2 mastergroup multiplex, which translates six basic 600-channel mastergroups to their line frequency assignments in the range 0.564 to 17.548 MHz. Another component is the line connecting equipment, which contributes to shaping the line signal frequency characteristic and provides for blocking mastergroups. The purpose of this blocking is to provide dropping and branching with recovery of the spectrum for transmission of other mastergroups. Mastergroup connectors are available for flexible interconnection of basic mastergroups without demodulation to supergroups. Finally, existing line protection switching equipment has been modified for use with the L-4 Coaxial System."
"This article describes the power supply system and the equipment developed to supply power to the repeaters and equalizers spaced along the coaxial cable. Power is supplied as a constant direct current over the center conductors of each pair of coaxial tubes in a series circuit consisting of two or four current regulated converters and the cable system consisting of the repeaters and equalizers. The system is designed for high reliability, long life, ease of maintenance and repair, and unattended operation."
"Impedance uniformity of the disk-insulated serrated-seam coaxial makes this Bell System standard a suitable transmission line for the L-4 system. As used in Coax 20, the nine in-service coaxial pairs and one reserve pair provide the capability of transmitting 32,400 simultaneous telephone conversations. To make the L-4 system a total communications network, support apparatus and enclosures which house and protect the electronic equipment from varied and rigorous environments were designed to complement the reliability and integrity of the Coax 20 cable."
"A coupled wave analysis is given of the Bragg diffraction of light by thick hologram gratings, which is analogous to Phariseau's treatment of acoustic gratings and to the “dynamical” theory of X-ray diffraction. The theory remains valid for large diffraction efficiencies where the incident wave is strongly depleted. It is applied to transmission holograms and to reflection holograms. Spatial modulations of both the refractive index and the absorption constant are allowed for. The effects of loss in the grating and of slanted fringes are also considered. Algebraic formulas and their numerical evaluations are given for the diffraction efficiencies and the angular and wavelength sensitivities of the various hologram types."
"Heavy rainfall and associated attenuation at centimeter and millimeter wavelengths are discussed. Measured attenuations are combined with path-rainfall statistics obtained from a rain-gauge network to produce plots of attenuation versus path length for a given probability of fading. Under the assumption that the spatial behavior of heavy rain is similar at various locations, the path-average rainfall statistics are combined with highly resolved point rain rates for geographically separated places to produce attenuation data appropriate to those places. Dual parallel-path-diversity is also evaluated; it is shown to be a very advantageous arrangement."
"In many large computer systems with real-time use (such as the No. 1 Electronic Switching System), the central processing unit handles much of its work through queues. It may spend much of its time cycling through the queues, performing the work requests it finds there. To accomodate varying degrees of urgency, the cycle may visit some hoppers more often than others. (No. 1 ESS strongly relies on this procedure.) This paper provides an approximate method for evaluating different cycles. Using the evaluation method and some approximations, we obtain a formula for the optimum relative frequency with which different queues should be visited. The model used is nonprobabilistic, and treats requests as continuous rather than discrete. The model also ignores certain interdependencies between queues. Despite these drastic simplifications, the results probably provide useful guidance, if interpreted cautiously."
"J. R. Pierce has recently proposed a system for synchronizing an arbitrary number of geographically separated oscillators, and, under the assumption of zero transmission delays between stations, has shown that a certain linear model of the system is stable in the sense that all of the station frequencies approach a common final value as t → ∞. The purpose of this paper is to report on some results concerning the dynamic behavior of a nonlinear version of an important special case of Pierce's model. The nonlinear model takes into account transmission delays. It is proved under certain very general conditions that the nonlinear model possesses the stability property required of a synchronization system. More explicitly, it is proved that the model is stable for all nonnegative values of the delays. The results show that the model possesses some additional fundamental properties of engineering interest, and they provide an analytical basis for using a computer for further studies. In particular, a complete solution to the problem of determining the final frequency of the system and the final value of the content of an arbitrary buffer is presented, in the sense that it is shown that these quantities can be determined by solving a certain set of nonlinear equations which is proved to possess a unique solution."
"The cascade and parallel realizations of an arbitrary digital filter are both formed using second order sections as building blocks. This simple recursive filter is commonly implemented using 2's complement arithmetic for the addition operation. Overflow can then occur at the adder and the resulting nonlinearity causes self-oscillations in the filter. The character of the resulting oscillations for the second order section are here analyzed in some detail. A simple necessary and sufficient condition on the feedback tap gains to insure stability, even with the presence of the nonlinearity, is given although for many desired designs this will be too restrictive. A second question studied is the effect of modifying the “arithmetic” in order to quench the oscillations. In particular it is proven that if the 2's complement adder is modified so that it “saturates” when overflow occurs, then no self-oscillations will be present."
"The data rate of a multilevel digital FM system is optimized subject to fixed RF bandwidth, signal-to-noise ratio, and output error rate. The possibility of optimizing such a system was first considered by J. R. Pierce at Bell Telephone Laboratories. He made the observation that it is possible to send many levels slowly or fewer levels rapidly for an FM wave of fixed RF bandwidth and error rate, and that there must be a choice of signaling rate and number of levels that optimize the data rate. The rigorous treatment of this problem is the subject of this paper. The mathematical model we analyze uses frequency-shift keying at the transmitter and ideal discrimination detection with an integrate-and-dump circuit as the post-detection filter. Our results are exhibited graphically showing the various dependencies among the pertinent system parameters."
"The power spectral density at the output of an ideal hard limiter (one-bit quantizer) is examined when the input is driven by a narrowband gaussian signal plus an additive gaussian noise that consists of a broadband background component plus narrowband interference. Assuming that the input signal-to-noise power ratio is small by virtue of the large bandwidth of the observed broadband noise, calculations are made of the average output signal power, the average output noise power in the signal band, and the average power of the strongest intermodulation product. The results support the intuitive conclusion that spectrum analyzer performance is degraded by the presence of the limiter and that this degradation is more pronounced when a strong narrowband interfering signal is present. They also indicate that the degradation can be minimized by making the bandwidth observed by the limiter sufficiently wide that the broadband noise power dominates both the signal and interference powers. In particular, for a typical example, the signal-to-noise power ratio measured in the signal band is degraded by less than about 1.3 dB by the presence of the limiter and the ratio of output signal power to power of the strongest intermodulation product is greater than about 14.5 dB as long as the broadband noise power exceeds the interfering-signal power."
"The rate-distortion function with a mean square error distortion criterion is investigated for a class of Gaussian Markov sources. It is found that for rates greater than a certain minimum, the rate-distortion function is equivalent to that of an independent letter source. This minimum rate was found to be less than n bits per symbol, where n is the order of the Markov sequence. Comparisons between the rate-distortion function, and two quantizing systems are made."
"The optimum linear modulator and demodulator which provide transmission of a gaussian vector source through an additive gaussian vector channel are derived in this paper. The measure of performance that is used is the transmission distortion, which is defined here as the mean square error between the source output and the decoder output. It is assumed that the source and channel are mutually independent but that correlations can exist among the components of each. The performance of the best linear system is then compared with the distortion shown by Shannon to be theoretically obtainable when no functional constraint is imposed at the modulator other than an energy constraint. Although the precise form of this optimum modulator is not known for general gaussian vector sources and channels, it is known to be nonlinear and to require arbitrarily long coding block lengths. However, it is a commonly held notion that when the source and channel dimensionalities are equal the optimum modulator is linear and requires a block length of only one. It is shown here that this belief is incorrect except in very particular situations which are described. Some relations between the optimum linear modulator-demodulator pair and Shannon's test channel are discussed, and an example is included which shows that the nonoptimality of linear devices can be quite small."
"The problem of minimizing coding or quantizing noise in a communication system is posed in a general setting. It is shown that if the messages to be transmitted are sample sequences drawn from a discrete-time random process meeting a certain simply stated criterion of “randomness” and if there exists a quantized communication system which is optimal in that it introduces a minimum amount of coding noise, then this optimal system can be realized using a transmitter of special form. Specifically, the optimum transmitter is one which quantizes each message sample according to a scheme that depends only upon the quantized material already transmitted, rather than upon the (unquantized) material that has been previously offered for transmission. It follows that only digital storage is required at the transmitter or receiver. If the receiver is limited, a priori, to have only a given finite amount of storage, and if the system is optimum within this constraint, the transmitter need have only the same amount of storage."
"A class of binary encoding algorithms called Harper codes has been studied previously as a means of encoding numbers for transmission over an idealized binary channel. This paper considers a more general and practical transmission system model. For any Harper code, it presents a technique for obtaining the expression for the average absolute numerical error that occurs during transmission. It shows that all Harper codes do not exhibit the same average absolute numerical error for all transmission systems that satisfy the model. However, there is a subset of Harper codes such that all codes in the subset give identical performance. The paper defines the subset and presents an expression for the average absolute numerical error for any Harper code in the subset. The subset is important because it includes the natural binary representation, the Gray code, and the folded binary code."
"A class of nonlinear equations arising in transistor network analysis, as well as in other areas, has the form $f_{i}(x_{i})+ \\sim_{i=1}^{n}a_{i j}x_{i}- b_{i}=0 \\quad i=1,2,\\ldots, n (1)$ or in matrix notation $F(x) \\ + \\ Ax \\ -\\ b = 0, \\quad (2)$ where the nonlinearities fi(·) are continuously differentiable, strictly monotone increasing functions. Results by Willson1 and Sandberg and Willson2,3 on nonlinear networks have included broad conditions for the existence and uniqueness of a solution to equation (2). However, convergent computational algorithms for finding the solution have been given only for restricted subclasses of the class of equations that have unique solutions.1,2,4,5 These subclasses are characterized by a variety of restrictions on the matrix A and on the type of nonlinearities. In this brief we show that a single convergent algorithm exists for solving these equations under conditions virtually as broad as the known existence and uniqueness conditions. Peripherally, we obtain under these conditions a conceptually simple proof of the existence of a solution."
"We discuss problems and opportunities inherent in the use of frequencies above 10 GHz for common carrier applications. We also argue that if short hops are used to ameliorate the severe attenuation caused by excessive rainfall and if integrated solid-state electronics are used to achieve cost and reliability goals, a viable system can result. Interference-tolerant modulation methods and high performance antennas are used in order to permit many repeaters to operate co-channel in a restricted geographical area. The paper also includes several references to other papers in this issue and elsewhere which describe studies and experiments conducted to demonstrate feasibility of the system concept and components and subassemblies designed especially for broadband short-hop system application."
"This paper reports a two-hop system experiment, designed to demonstrate the viability of the concept described in previous papers. A single RF channel, instrumented in the 11 GHz common carrier band, is transmitted from a terminal to a repeater one and a half miles away. After passing through the repeater, the signal is transmitted back to the terminal. We discuss the system parameters in relation to the requirements of operation at frequencies above 10 GHz; we also describe design, construction, and performance, as well as the lessons learned from one year of operation."
"This paper describes a packaged antenna specially designed for mounting on a slender tapered aluminum mast and gives typical measured electrical characteristics. The antenna is used in a 1.5-mile experimental repeater installation operating at 11 GHz. The masts and foundations for the experimental system are described briefly. The antenna package is an upright cylinder, a shape chosen to minimize mast twisting caused by wind, and to present a pleasing appearance in combination with a slender mast. The radiating elements consist of a waveguide aperture feed, a 30-inch parabolic reflector mounted with its axis vertical at the top of the package, and a 45-degree flat reflecting plate similar to an inverted periscope. The space below the 45-degree reflector houses all the repeater electronics. Because of the shielding effect of the cylindrical housing, this antenna like the horn-reflector antenna, has very low radiation in the far side and back lobe regions."
"This paper describes a design procedure for optimizing the performance of a varactor upconverter microwave power amplifier with respect to maximum pump efficiency; the procedure gives explicit diode and circuit parameters and operating levels. An optimum diode is selected by inclusion of an empirical relation between diode breakdown voltage and cutoff frequency. A fully driven abrupt junction diode is assumed. The bandwidth of an upconverter is limited by the intermediate frequency input circuit which typically has a 3 dB bandwidth of about 10 percent. We describe a method of obtaining broadband operation where the interface between the intermediate frequency source and the varactor diode is mismatched in an optimum way. Analysis shows that the frequency variation in mismatch loss just compensates for the frequency variation in upconverter gain predicted by the Rowe-Manley relations. The design procedure is illustrated by a 300 MHz to 10.960 GHz varactor upconverter built for use in the transmitter of the short hop radio system experiment. A bandwidth of 120 MHz between 1.4 dB points represents a bandwidth of more than 40 percent at the intermediate frequency. An output power of +16 dBm was obtained using a pump power of +20 dBm giving a pump efficiency of 40 percent. The normal input to the driver amplifier is +3 dBm giving an overall gain of +13 dB. The upconverter operates over a temperature range of −40°F to +140°F with only a small change in bandshape and output power."
"Significant improvements in noise figure and band-width have been obtained in down conversion from frequencies in the 11 GHz range to frequencies of several hundred megacycles. An average noise figure of 5.6 dB and greater than 50 percent bandwidth have been obtained using a Schottky-barrier diode balanced mixer and a low noise transistor preamplifier. We discuss basic design criteria, and present a complete circuit description and measurements for one of the downconverters used in the short hop radio system experiment."
"Short hop radio systems of the type described in this issue require broadband intermediate frequency amplifiers in the range of a few hundred MHz which have a large gain control range and stable characteristics with respect to temperature; they must also make efficient use of bias power and have well behaved noise properties. This paper describes the design of such amplifiers. We give extensive measurements for an amplifier with a 1 dB bandwidth of 120 MHz centered at 300 MHz and an automatic gain control range of 43 dB."
"This paper describes new variolosser circuits which are suitable for use in high quality broadband IF amplifiers operating at several hundred MHz, and offering substantial improvements in power consumption, temperature stability, bandshape stability, minimum attenuation and attenuation range. Three variolossers of this type are used in the automatic gain control for the IF amplifier used in the short hop radio system experiment. We present an analysis, a design procedure, and extensive measurements. As an example of the performance to be expected, one experimental vario-loser has a minimum attenuation of 1.35 dB, a maximum attenuation of 19.5 dB, and is flat to ±0.15 dB over a 40 percent band centered at 300 MHz."
"Hybrid integration of microwave and millimeter wave circuits is essential for achieving future communication objectives in radio systems. Hybrid integrated circuits are circuits which are manufactured on a single planar substrate. Passive elements are fabricated by partial metallization of the substrate; active devices are inserted by bonding semiconductor diodes or bulk devices to the metal conductors. We discuss the electrical properties of passive line elements on insulating substrates. We also compare the design formulas given with measurements made at 30 GHz, and present the results obtained at 30 GHz with wideband transitions from waveguide to microstrip and the measurements obtained with microstrip IMPATT oscillators and high order varactor multi-pliers in the same frequency range. There are advantages of scaling for building hybrid integrated circuits which we discuss. Oversize models can be built and tested in a relatively short time and substantial savings in turnaround time, required man-power, and cost can be achieved."
"Radio systems operating at frequencies above 10 GHz are limited to short hops by rain attenuation. A severe interference problem arises from the fact that in a given area many repeaters may mutually interfere through through the back and side lobe responses of their antennas. Introducing the concept of frequency spectrum conservation by maximizing the communication flow through an area, a model of a dense network of radio systems has been studied to determine the effect of antenna discrimination and bandwidth expanding modulation methods upon the total communication capacity in a given frequency band. We conclude that for efficient performance, bandwidth expansion is required; we also conclude that communication capacity can be considerably increased by improving the near side lobe performance of antennas."
"We discuss the design and operation of a dense rain gauge system for obtaining statistical data on both the temporal and spatial distribution of heavy rainfall. The data are collected every ten seconds from a network of approximately one hundred rain gauges spaced 1.34 kilometer in a square array which covers an area of 130 square kilometers. The rain gauge is a continuous, flow type with a response time of the order of one second. We describe the system used for recording the data on magnetic tape and give typical computer-generated rain maps for large area storms and for localized showers."
"This paper describes the statistical treatment of the calibration data of the capacitance gauges used for measurement of rain rates in the rain gauge network set up in a 160 square kilometer area surrounding Crawford Hill, Holmdel, New Jersey. The expression R = αe−βf, where R is the rain rate in millimeters per hour, f is the frequency of the rain gauge oscillator, and α and β are fitted coefficients, allows calibration curves to be developed for all 99 of the devices in the system with an overall equivalent standard error of 7.3 millimeters per hour. This paper discusses the distribution of parameters and residuals and gives a refinement which corrects for a fitting bias."
"We discuss 18.5 GHz attenuation measurements on a 6.4 km path within the Holmdel rain gauge network. The period of measurement includes the summer of 1967 during which many very heavy showers occurred. We examine the data for individual storms separately. There is a marked variability. For example, one shower shows strong evidence of an updraft. The composite results show that $\\gama = 0.041 \\Sigma_{i}d_{i}R_{i}^{1.04}$ where γ is the attenuation per unit length, Ri is the rainfall rate in millimeters per hour measured at the ith rain gauge on the path, and di is the distance in kilometers over which the rain rate Ri applies. When examined in detail, this relationship is satisfactory for attenuations < 3 dB per kilometer; however, the higher attenuations exceed this prediction and agree with the relationship $\\gama = 0.055\\langel R \\rangel_{av}^{1.09}$ where $\\langel R\\ rangel_{a v}$ is the path-average rain rate. Percent-of-time distributions are given for $\\langel R\\ rangel_{a v},$ the attenuation, and the duration of attenuation. For this sample of data, the path attenuation exceeds thirty <dB 0.03 percent of the time; thus 6.4 kilometers is probably too long for a conventional 18 GHz radio-relay path in New Jersey. All fades observed to date have been associated with rainfall; thus no “selective fading” has as yet been observed on this 6.4 kilometer path."
"This paper contains a statistical summary of the 14,000,000 measurements taken during 27 rainfalls in a six-month period in 1967 from a 96-station, rapid-response rain guage network spread over a rectangular area 13 by 14 kilometers centered near Crawford Hill, New Jersey. The analysis emphasizes rain rates greater than 50 millimeters per hour, which interfere with radio transmission in the 10 to 30 GHz frequency range. Heavy rain rates are relatively rare events, come in irregular bursts, and do not appear amenable to description by simple analytic distributions. This paper presents statistics concerning the behavior of rain rates at a point in space, the relationship of rain rates separated in space or time, and the relationship of average rain rates on pairs of paths in various configurations."
"Modern submarine cable systems usually provide bidirectional transmission over a single cable with repeaters which use a common amplifier for both directions of transmission. The signals for the two directions of transmission occupy separate frequency bands. Under normal loads, the amplifier is highly linear and there is negligible interaction of the signals in the two bands. However, when approaching overload, intermodulation in the repeaters may transfer appreciable power between bands. It has been discovered that this feedback, especially in the presence of large misalignments, can result in a system that maintains itself in overload. Such a system, once excited by a momentary signal or noise peak, generates sufficient intermodulation noise to keep itself overloaded, even in the absence of any further external signal. This paper describes the occurrence which drew attention to this phenomenon, presents an analytical approach used to predict stability margins for any given repeater, and describes the action taken to ensure the stability of the SF Submarine Cable System."
"This paper describes and analyzes a technique for the automatic and continuous miniimization of the linear distortion in a communication channel. The channel can be used for the transmission of information in any format while the minimization process continues simultaneously. The equalizer which implements this strategy thus responds adaptively to changes in the channel's frequency-response characteristics. Recent work in the field of automatic equalization has been along two main avenues. The first has led to a series of special-purpose equalizers, each designed to function with a particular information signalling format. This first class of equalizers is readily made adaptive by use of the known signal structure. The second approach is the optimization of the chnnel's frequency response in the general sense so that its transmission capability is improved for any signal. Equalizers of the latter type have, to date, been of the preset type, requiring adjustment in a dedicated period prior to information transmission. This paper describes a tecchnique which retains the advantage of the general approach yet adds that of adaptive operation. The result is an equalizer which can be used with any information transmission scheme and which continuously strives to compensate for any change which occurs in the channel's characterstics."
"The Christiansen filter consists of particles of a transparent solid immersed in a suitable liquid such that the two materials have different dispersions but equal indexes of refraction at some specified wavelength. This paper analyzes such a filter as an optical device for providing wavelength-dependent resolution. We derive the modulation transfer function of this filter by using the Huygens-Fresnel diffraction principle. General agreement is obtained with experimental measurements made using monochromatic light. One proposed single-tube color camera system for picture telephone service requires the three primary color component images to have different resolutions. An optical filter illustrating the characteristics required by this application was designed using the formulas developed in this paper. Subjective evaluation of the experimental results obtained with this filter indicates no unforeseen degradation of the composite image of the primary color components."
"This paper studies the steady-state performance of a system that stabilizes the beam position in optical waveguides. We have constrained the system to make only a single fixed amount of correction in the beam position at any given lens. We consider a symmetric corrector capable of correcting both positive and negative errors at any given lens and an unsymmetric corrector capable of correcting only positive errors at any given lens. We give the results from our studies of the performance of these systems when the lens misalignment forms a wave at the guide resonant spatial frequency, ωo, and from our simulation of 5,000 confocal guides which were subjected to uncorrelated lens misalignment. We also derive an approximate sťatistical theory relating the root mean square beam displacement to the root mean square lens misalignment. We relate systems where correction occurs at every lens to systems where correction can occur only at every nth lens."
"Previous calculations of the low-loss modes of a symmetric cylindrical confocal laser resonator have been extended to the asymmetric case. Diffraction losses are governed by the geometric-mean Fresnel number Nm of the two end mirrors and, in the system we consider, by the Fresnel number No of an output coupling aperture in one of the mirrors. Loss factors and mirror field distributions have been calculated numerically for different No for Nm in the range 0.6 ≦ Nm ≦ 2."
"This paper discusses the behavior of oscillators with multiple-resonant circuits. It discusses the condition for free-running stable oscillations, the injection locking phenomena, the stable locking range, the noise of free-running and injection-locked oscillators, and a condition for parasitic oscillations in detail, and presents a graphical interpretation of this study for clarity. Finally, this paper shows how broadbanding of oscillators can be achieved with a double-resonant circuit. This provides a systematic guide for the design of broadband frequency deviators and broadband injection-locked oscillators for numerous applications."
"Most existing digital fault simulators can simulate only a somewhat restrictive class of failures; namely, stuck at “1” and stuck at “0” faults. The problem seems to be the lack of techniques for properly treating the effects due to “backward propagation” of errors. This paper describes a method for illustrating how shorted input diode failures, which previously could not be simulated, can be handled by digital methods. The method is applicable to all other modes of failures describable by truth tables or Boolean expressions. Furthermore, we examine the problem of circuit oscillations caused by backward propagating errors. We conclude that failure induced oscillations can only occur under very restrictive conditions."
"This paper presents some new aspects of mixer operation and shows that the behavior of a mixer, using a resistive diode, can in general be represented by means of an equivalent circuit consisting of two transducers connected in cascade. The first of these two transducers transforms the input signals into amplitude modulations; the second is an AM detector which transforms these amplitude modulations into output signals. An important feature of this equivalent circuit is that it gives the dependence of the conversion loss upon certain important mixer parameters. We also show that extremely low (< 0.3 dB) conversion losses can be achieved from a Schottky barrier diode, if the pump frequency ωo is much smaller than the cutoff frequency of the diode. To achieve such low conversion losses the diode must be open-circuited at the harmonics 2ωo, 3ωo, 4ωo, and so on, of the pump frequency."
"J. R. Pierce has recently proposed a system for synchronizing an arbitrary number of geographically separated oscillators, and, under the assumption of zero transmission delays between stations, has shown that a certain linear model of the system is stable in the sense that all of the station frequencies approach a common final value as t → ∞. This paper reports on some results concerning the dynamic behavior of Pierce's linear model. The results take into account transmission delays. More explicitly, we prove that if a certain set of simple inequalities involving the delays is satisfied, then the system is stable and the oscillator frequencies approach their common final value at an exponential rate. These inequalities have the property that they are always satisfied for sufficiently small delays. This paper presents a simple example showing that the system can be unstable when the inequalities are not met. In addition, we present some information concerning the rate of decay of the natural modes of stable systems, discuss an alternative stability criterion not involving the transmission delays and derive an explicit expression for the final frequency. Finally, we discuss the mathematical relationship between Pierce's model and earlier models of synchronization systems."
"Any estimator which is constrained to take values in a finite range is, in general, biased. Many times the bias is unknown; furthermore, in some cases the bias may become the main contributor to the mean square error of an estimator. This paper derives upper and lower bounds on the bias of a finite-range, signal parameter estimator."
"In the course of analyzing the dynamic behavior of mechanical systems subjected to random excitations, we investigate the associated Fokker-Planck equation. We also discuss the relationship between the characteristics of the random excitation and the nonlinear intensity coefficients governed by the physical properties of the system. This relationship leads to some simplified methods for solving the response probability density of certain nonlinear systems. We present general solutions to a class of multidimensional problems with desirable constraints. The random motion of a single-mode mechanical oscillator with various nonlinear stiffnesses and a charged particle moving in an electromagnetic field are examples. Cosine-power and sech-power distributions are found to be associated with the steady state response of a tangent stiffness system and a hyperbolic tangent stiff ness system, respectively. When the influencing magnetic vector potential M is irrotational, the stationary probability for the moving particle in the 6-dimensional response phase-space is statistically independent."
"This Issue of the Journal contains three papers and an ISO draft proposal dealing with an acoustic response curve for the reproduction of motion-picture sound. The authors of these papers, Lennart Ljungberg of Sweden, Erik Rasmussen of Denmark, and C. C. Buckle and A. W. Lumkin of U. K., have done a considerable amount of work in their respective countries in making measurements and in developing techniques for obtaining an objective evaluation of the listening (acoustic) response of dubbing rooms and theaters. Their work culminated in the formation of Working Group 3.1 of the International Standards Organization's Technical Committee 36 — Cinematography."
"This is a document of the International Organization for Standardization; drafted by subgroup ISO/TC 36/WG 3.1 in Document 36 – WG 3.1/USSR – 6 amended."
"A given film often sounds different in different cinemas, and different from the way it sounded in the dubbing theater. Strict adherence to some purely electrical response does not insure identical sound in different theaters. Loudspeaker and auditorium properties must also be included. Described here is work done in Sweden during the last four years. A logical division of the theater replay chain in two parts is introduced, enabling a generalized treatment to include also control-room monitoring. Steady-state, filtered-noise measurement methods are described and it is shown that simple octave-filtered noise gives a very appreciable amount of information. Results from a number of cinemas and control rooms are given, together with suggestions for recommended response curves and some notes on beginning international standardization."
"A 35mm optical test film was produced with octave-filtered random noise. Played back five times with five different microphone positions in the auditorium, the average sound pressure level was calculated for each center frequency; mean and range values are given for 25 theaters and some specific samples are analyzed. Applying the ISO Draft Proposal (May 1969, Moscow), six theaters were within the boundaries, nine needed small modifications and ten were out on a large scale."
"In the process of developing a monophonic magnetic sound system, deficiencies and wide variations in auditorium acoustics and loudspeaker characteristics were accentuated. Subjective methods of alignment and correction were found inadequate and time consuming. A method of quantitative measurement and analysis has been evolved and applied to studio re-recording and review rooms. Liaison with member countries of ISO TC 36 has been established and work is proceeding to establish standards to which studio re-recording theaters and cinemas can be aligned. — For practical reasons loudspeaker characteristics and theater acoustics must be investigated together. Subjective assessments should be supplemented with measured data giving information on reverberation times, sound pressure levels, and pulse reflection patterns. The methods used to make these tests are described, with a summary of the results obtained from a survey of studio re-recording theaters. To obtain better matching between these, adjustments can often be made by using electrical compensation, but in larger theaters and in the cinema field this may be more difficult, and acoustic correction or redesign may be necessary in the worst cases."
"The standard “Recommended Practice for Reporting Photometric Performance of Incandescent Filament Lighting Units Used in Theatre and Television Production,” has been very useful for the industry. It, however, refers only to such lamp specifications as nominal wattage, design voltage, rated life, specified initial lumens and approximate color temperature. Little is stated about how these factors vary for individual samples of a particular lamp type. Testing laboratories can determine the performance of a specific lamp, but the user has limited knowledge and facilities for dealing with lamp rating variations that may affect acceptability for a specific use. The incandescent lamp is a highly precise device with operating parameters principally governed by the tungsten filament. Normally voltage is the first and basic factor establishing the lamp design based on the available power supply, and wattage is established by desired performance. Life, lumens and color temperature are all related variables with well-established interrelationships. It is important to know what variations may be expected in these factors for any specific lamp. Various illustrations show the effects on a lamp's performance in a luminaire. Other factors which can affect performance are considered along with the tolerances which can be anticipated."
"Noise* is a source of impairment in any form of information transmission system. In a television picture it is the fluctuating granular structure resulting from random brightness variations which is superimposed on the picture elements. — Although a video signal from a TV camera always contains noise, the signal-to-noise ratio prevailing in modern equipment is of such value that impairment of picture quality is minimal. At present, a major portion of television programing is the replay of video tape recorded from a TV camera output. The level of noise generated in the video-tape recorder and its video transmission characteristics which influence the original noise structure of a TV camera output are important elements in maintaining the high standard of TV picture quality. — Origin of noise in TV camera equipment, fundamental characteristics of an FM system used in a contemporary video recorder, and the potential sources of video noise associated with the video recording/replay process are discussed."
"Photochromic materials can be used as erasable and reusable memories for projective displays. Measurements of the properties of available photochromic materials were made and the most sensitive optically-erasable and heat-erasable photochromics were subjected to further tests. Quantitative data were compiled for the most sensitive materials on exposure sensitivity, fatigue and information storage during projection. The heat-erasable material was found to be far superior for the general display application. It was more sensitive in exposure, less subject to fatigue and the image did not fade due to the visible projector illumination."
"Electronic Aids to filmmaking have been developed to produce high-quality film, particularly color, using television methods, to reduce production costs and to overcome the serious technical problems associated with the international exchange of video-taped program material."
"The following abstracts are from papers that appeared in the NHK Laboratories Notes, a publication of NHK Technical Research Laboratories and Broadcasting Science Research Laboratories, 361, Kinuta, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan. The serial number and date shown in parenthesis after the title of each abstract indicate the issue in which the paper appeared. The papers were abstracted by Pierre Mertz, Chairman, SMPTE Board of Editors, 66 Leamington St., Lido, Long Beach, NY 11561."
"The Autumn Conference of the Association for High-speed Photography was held at the University of Birmingham, September 23–24, 1969. Some 70 members attended technical sessions in the lecture theater of the Haworth Building of the Chemistry Department, at the invitation of Dr. John Majer, and were accommodated for dinner and rooms in the Mason Hall of Residence."
"The starting point for these exhumed notes from our past technology was, as the author, Harold A. Zahl tells us, his discovery of the 1910 edition of Motion Picture Handbook by F. H. Richardson. Dr. Zahl was until his recent retirement Director of Research at the U.S. Army Electronics Laboratories at Fort Monmouth, NJ. His graduate work in physics was done at the University of Iowa which granted him the PhD degree in 1931"
"A portable, wireless NTSC color camera suitable for field or studio operation incorporates a digital, remote-control system capable of controlling all the normal functions of up to six color cameras over either a wireless link or a single conductor coaxial cable. Functions such as beam, focus, centering, gain, pedestal and encoder quadrature phase check can be operated from a remote location thus making it possible for a single control console to register, set up and operate a number of cameras. The use of NTSC transmission from the camera greatly increases the operational flexibility of the system while the digital command of the camera-sync generator permits the cameras to be fully color-locked to the base station. The availability of a direct NTSC signal from the backpack makes it possible to use the camera with a portable tape recorder or standard color monitor without additional signal processing."
"The portable color TV camera system is designed to produce color pictures fully compatible with those from standard TV cameras. The system was successfully used in the 1968 Political Conventions and the Mexican Olympics. Video synchronization and camera control over a single circuit are provided by signals from a combination of frequency shift keying and a Time Division Multiplex Coding system. A remote control antenna system as well as utilization of frequency modulation of the chroma video transmission minimize RF interference and multiple reflections."
"A back-pack camera system with communications equipment has been proven effective in color-casts of the 1968 political conventions and remote sporting events. In choosing the optimum design for such a system many trade-off factors were considered. Choices of color coding in the portable camera for best transmission over the RF link were considered. The selection of suitable RF frequencies and bandwidths became a key factor of the preliminary study. The choice of number and size of sensors and the selection of a compatible optical system were also important. The system, as constructed, provided color pictures of acceptable broadcast quality and supported the design decisions."
"In France, the importance of motion pictures to education was recognized as early as 1877 by Emile Reynaud. Another pioneer in the field was Pathé who produced acetate film in 1910, recognizing that this would be the basic condition for introducing film in schools. In 1936 SMPE standards for 16mm film were adopted. With the introduction of super 8mm the question arose as to whether magnetic or photographic sound recording was preferred, as well as doubt about reproduction of detail in 8mm for classroom use. Plans are discussed for film through video channels and multiple-video receivers for larger classrooms. Developments in EVR (Electronic Video Recording) technique and material may lead to home equipment for study purposes."
"Ivan Putora wrote this paper as a thesis at one of Czechoslovakia's official film schools. He was, obviously, unaware of the existence of a very interesting paper by Dwin R. Craig, titled “Image Sharpness Meter” and published in Photographic Science and Engineering, vol. 5, pp. 337–342, Nov.-Dec. 1961. It is interesting to note that both authors treat precisely the same matter, although in a slightly different way. Whereas Craig, starting from the same premises, develops an instrument for the direct measurement of best focus by purely photometrical means, Putora attempts to develop a comparison method, based on the same principle as that of Craig, but which can be employed in a general way for evaluating optical systems and/or photographic or TV-camera performance, either by eye or by instrument. Whereas Craig's method uses, as a starting point, focus measurements on enlarger easels, Putora's initial effort is directed at motion-picture camera focusing. We believe it will be of interest for the Journal readers to compare both authors' lines of thought and to draw their own conclusions. Putora's merit is, perhaps, to give a method that appears to be very simple in its applications, and to have it based on the customary sensitometric representations and calculations for image evaluation.—P.W.-T."
"Electroluminescent, light-emitting diodes and their light emission have been known for some time. It is only recently, however, that the art of manufacture and processing of visible emission materials has made them available for field utilization. Many applications are of special interest for the motion-picture film-recording and instrumentation fields, since these devices may be used for high-reliability data recording of various electrical information on motion-picture film. With the availability of these highly developed light sources, compact and efficient high-frequency code-writing methods and equipment are available for all workers in the field. Of the types of solid-state lamps discussed, there are two main families, the gallium arsenide phosphide and the silicon carbide types, both of which have peculiarities in terms of their electrical configurations, their physical structures, and various light output levels and characteristics. This paper evaluates techniques for each type of device, the use of these light-emitting diodes for computer-compatible coding, and methods of writing this code on the film emulsion."
"This is the eleventh and final in a series of reports by this author on selected financial and statistical developments on the nontheatrical motion-picture and audio-visual field in the United States. It brings up to date (as of January 1, 1969) this information, and accordingly supersedes “Market Review: Nontheatrical Film and Audio-visual—1967,” published in the November 1968 Journal"
"A Confluence Theater was designed in accordance with the theme of the U.S. Pavilion at HemisFair ‘68, “The Confluence of Cultures in the United States.” Theater technology and film projection were combined to enable the audience to participate in this “confluence.” The film required three screen formats: 30 × 15 ft, 30 × 25 ft and finally 140 × 37 ft. “Flying” the smaller screens and theater walls into the ceiling provided the confluence of three 400-seat audiences into one audience of 1200. Three standard 35mm projectors and three 70mm projectors, with films enlarged from 35mm negatives, were employed; 2500-W and 6500-W xenon arc lamps provided illumination and seven channels supplied mono and stereo sound to the specially designed theater. Precise timing of the projected picture, sound, flying screens and flying walls required total automation."
"The colorimetric performance of a television camera is controlled by the color separation characteristics of the optics and the spectral response of the pickup tubes, neither of which is perfect. Based on an electronic method of varying the overall spectral response of a color TV camera chain, equipment has been designed to produce an improvement in color; however, due to control interaction the elements of these matrixes should be determined mathematically and trimmed only under laboratory conditions. These units are not suited to reducing camera matching errors. This system enables the use of a simple setup procedure requiring only a color test chart and a vectorscope. It is possible for an operator to adjust the colorimetry of a TV camera under typical studio operating conditions and to assure camera-to-camera matching. Noise introduction in the black-and-white portions of a televised scene is eliminated since no correction signals are generated in the absence of color."
"New types of high-efficiency discharge lamps are being used increasingly to light many areas, including sports stadiums and arenas where color TV pickups are often made. Colorimetric calculations and live TV tests show that, despite some color distortion due to the light-source spectra, TV color quality is adequate for remote pickups of sports and other events. Suggestions are given for lighting-system design and for meeting operational problems related to remote pickups under discharge lamps."
"A new method for the measurement of the light transfer characteristic of television camera tubes uses a recording device that provides measurements in a continuous form. A special projector, emitting a light beam of variable size and cross section, is focused, successively, on a gamma calibration probe and on the camera tube, thereby determining the measurement."
"Instead of reproducing video records by re-recording from the master tape at the normal playback speed, a faster method is accomplished by the process of magnetic transfer. The video master is recorded on a high-coercivity tape, which is then held in contact with an unmagnetized tape of low coercivity while both tapes are passed through a magnetic bias field. If tape coercivities and bias field strength are properly chosen, a mirror image of the master recording is transferred to the previously unmagnetized tape, without erasing the master. Since video recordings contain wavelengths as small as 2.5 μm, any separation or slip between the two tapes during transfer can result in an incomplete or distorted reproduction of the master recording. In the magnetic transfer device described here, the tapes are clamped together by means of compressed air, which maintains good contact between the tapes during transfer. With this experimental machine, high-density video information can be transferred at high speeds, producing copies of uniformly good quality. Copies with a SNR of 42 dB have been made consistently at speeds up to 150 in/s, which would make it possible to copy a one-hour video program in three minutes. The mechanical design of the magnetic transfer device is described, and experimental results are reported."
"A new processing machine spool is a basic part of a simple, reliable demand-drive system with an output pacer that can provide uniform and controllable tension throughout the machine. The spool has a rigid rim, a centrally disposed hub around which the spool rotates, and flexible spring-like members connecting the rim portion to the hub. The spools are mounted on a stationary shaft around which they are free to rotate. A drive roller on each rack provides a small percent of overdrive compared to the pacer. As film is demanded by the pacer, the rims of the spools are pulled into contact with the overdriven drive roller; when the demand for film is satisfied, the integral springs pull the spools out of contact with the drive roller. A resilient covering on the drive roller and serrated rims on the spring spools permit the driving force required for control of tension in the machine. An equilibrium position obtains in operation, with only small variations in speed. Film-transport speed is uniform and at equilibrium shows good regulation and no drift."
"The apertures of timing blocks, by which range-timing signals are “written” on the film record, are inaccessible for normal photometry. Measurements of this type are made with a new thin-probe pulsed photometer sensitive to 0.01 fL and versatile to use. The photometer's circuitry is sensitive only to pulsating light signals; it will not respond to the continuous ambient light levels normally encountered in the field or laboratory. With expanded ranges and scales of light sensing and higher bandpass characteristics, the instrument predicts the film exposure at all film speeds and frame rates. Additional plug-in probes adapt the meter-amplifier for a variety of measurements in numerous fields where a small, sensitive pickup is required."
"The absence of literature on motion-picture film filing systems prompted the Delaware Educational Television Network to analyze various filing systems and to design a system which would suit the needs of a relatively small production agency. The requirements for such a system are discussed and various filing techniques are described. The techniques described are applicable to all forms of recording of visual information."
"The University of Washington has modernized ten large classrooms, of varying sizes and ages, based on a faculty survey to determine requirements for audiovisual equipment. Dual overhead projectors and dual 2 × 2-in slide-projectors were installed in specially designed storage cabinets. Maximum reliability and convenience to the lecturer as well as security of equipment were primary goals in the equipment design. Special teaching lecterns contain built-in sound reinforcement with microphone and provision for record or tape playback, dimmer for room lights, control of lights for note-taking, control of projection screen and remote control of 2 × 2-in slide projectors, signal to movie projectionist, electric pointer and clock."
"The Medical College of Virginia has a comprehensive instructional-television system on a campus-wide basis which provides live and taped material for classroom presentation, services a self-study center and provides television intercommunication within several instructional laboratories. The system also produces and maintains a video-tape library, including a computerized catalog. It includes closed-circuit and broadcast production facilities. Operational and engineering experiences derived from the self-study activity and the impact of the laboratory-communicating system on the student-faculty ratio are discussed."
"Education no longer has to rely on the book and blackboard as the only teaching aids. Such items as single-concept cartridge films and random-access video tape along with programed learning and computer supervision not only offer efficient dissemination and storage of information but also the presentation of information, through control of sight, sound and time, in a “natural” environment. A survey of how the technologies of motion pictures and television can help education is given, with general descriptions of the various systems and devices."
"The author's task in preparing a full technical paper for publication and a shortened version for conference presentation is outlined. The summary immediately below serves as a check list of the highlights of the complete instructions, which follow."
"Experiments in 180° motion-picture photography and projection have been conducted at the Fleischmann Atmospherium-Planetarium, University of Nevada, Reno. Using modified 35mm Mitchell cameras and a Strong carbon-arc projector, several scientific films have been produced illustrating full sky weather, astronomical and space sciences, and oceanographic phenomena. The films are projected onto a 30-ft dome, the scene completely surrounding the observer. Because the screen is frameless, great realism is produced. These techniques have substantially increased the effectiveness of the presentation of the sciences to both the student and general public."
"The high light levels required in color TV broadcasting studios have led to increasing the number of luminaires and to excessive demands on the gelatin color filters. To lengthen the life of the filters a system of cooling by selective reflection has been designed. This development is based on a new method for making curved reflectors."
"Studio production of video-taped commercials and other programs requires TV audio systems with remote controls similar to those for video-switching equipment. A system has been designed with solid-state components for remote level control without using light-dependent devices. The system concept allows all audio sources to be immediately available on all high-level mixer positions in each of three control locations. One mixer in each location provides for “Audio-follow-Video” operation. All active circuit elements are located in the master control area. A universal amplifier with an extremely low noise figure combined with high-output level capability makes possible plug-in interchangeability for ease of maintenance."
"On Occasion in the past few years authors have submitted tutorial papers dealing with light and its quantitative measurement, and presenting concepts and definitions of terms. Many of these authors were not aware of the vast amount of study and effort which has been given to formulating such ideas in the most effective way by standardizing committees in the various technical and scientific organizations, both in the United States and abroad. In the course of examining such submitted matrrial one reviewer has collected a number of the most recent documents1–6 that have appcared reporting with some authority on this subject"
"Many Excellent instruments have been designed to keep cameras and recorders in sync and to provide bleep or start marks for the editor; however, for a small film unit, such equipment can be unduly expensive. The inexpensive (less than $150) equipment described in this paper was designed for a tenminute documentary film of the General Conference of the United Methodist Church held last year in the Municipal Auditorium in Dallas. The Conference was attended by some 1,200 delegates"
"CBC operating personnel have expressed considerable dissatisfaction with the performance of color telecine since the start of color transmissions in September, 1966."
"A standard environment for viewing color pictures is proposed based on the CBC's experience in television control rooms. The main feature is a lit monitoring wall that controls the contrast between the monitor pictures and the surround. A prototype review room has been built to provide one electronic and one optical picture side by side. The two pictures are made to look as alike as possible in size, brightness and color temperature. In a Canadian recommended practice for film review rooms a color temperature of 5000°K has been chosen for the light source as a compromise between the requirements of the television and film industries."
"The problem of designing the optical system of an ideal color telecine system is treated on purely theoretical considerations. Computer analysis and actual demonstrations show that, in practice, results approaching the ideal can be obtained in a working telecine camera. Refinements in gray-scale test slides and optical alteration of the camera tubes produce improved overall system performance."
"In an effort to standardize film reproduction on TV and to aid in the alignment and day-to-day operation of telecine chains, three test objects have been developed: (1) a dye-image crossed staircase slide of neutral appearance with steps at preselected densities; (2) a color bar slide with YCGMRB bars of predetermined dye combinations; and (3) a silver-image slide used for detecting flare. These slides are produced in 3¼ by 4 in and 35mm size. They require special production procedures that are described along with their specifications and methods of use."
"Use of color films underwater has been limited by lack of adequate light and by red absorption by sea water. Some improvements in equipment and techniques to improve color quality and to enable greater photographable distances are discussed. Two new continuous light sources available for underwater color photography are high-pressure sodium and dysprosium iodide arcs. These sources give four to five times the light output of tungsten bulbs. In order to obtain well-balanced color photographs underwater over a wide range of distances, it is necessary to compensate for the red absorption by water. This is done by filters. The use of the Wratten CCR series is discussed as well as a new continuously variable-density filter that shows promise of greater range of color balance."
"Photogrammetry, the science of obtaining reliable measurements by means of photography, has provided the oceanographer with a new tool. It is used to provide a permanent record of the object space and to provide a set of three space coordinates for any image of interest. These photographs are often of humanly inaccessible places. However, much work remains to be done. Photogrammetric cameras for underwater use that will function as efficiently as aerial photogrammetric cameras must be designed. Systems of position control must be developed; a greater control over the camera platform must be achieved and uniform illumination must be provided."
"A 6,000-W xenon lamp can illuminate drive-in and indoor screens as well as or better than the conventional rotating uncoated 13.6 positive carbon trim. The bulb is operated in a horizontal rather than a vertical position, thereby eliminating the auxiliary reflector, and at the same time giving a greater light pickup angle. The only adjustments required on the lamphouse are focus, horizontal and vertical bulb adjustments. The bulb is usually burned at 140 to 150 A dc and 35 to 38 V. The bulb can, however, be burned as low as 135 A and as high as 165 A. The bulb has a 4-in spherical envelope which makes it adaptable to horizontal operation. An adjustable bar magnet mounted beneath the bulb is used to stabilize the arc flame so that it can be directed to the center of the anode, thereby eliminating flickering and wandering of the xenon arc flame."
"The Society's Board of Governors, at its January 16th meeting, approved the calling of an Annual Meeting of the Society for Monday, April 21, 1969. The meeting will be held at 1 :30 p.m. in the East Ballroom at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, and will be held in conjunction with the 105th Semiannual Technical Conference immediately following the Get-Together Luncheon."
"The success of any motion-picture theater depends on its maintaining a certain quality of uniqueness in the total satisfaction experienced by theater audiences. Much, but not all, of this total satisfaction depends on the story told by the picture and the skill of the director and his many associates in presenting that story. Another factor contributing to the overall satisfaction of the audience is the atmosphere of the theater which is pleasingly different from that of the lone viewer nodding sleepily before his TV set."
"Equipment has been developed to synchronize color television sources so that they can be mixed and split-screened together at a central point. The system, which can work with any number of sources, controls the timing and phase of each source by error signals coded as audio tones which are generated by comparison equipment at the mixing point and carried by telephone bandwidth circuits. Part of the system, which was developed primarily for remote sources mounted in vehicles, is also being used within a studio complex in London to perform color-subcarrier phasing. The lock-up times of the various arrangements and the final accuracy required are discussed."
"Two conditions that must be satisfied when any form of genlock is used are: the establishment of a common time base and the synchronization of two or more pictures at a given junction. Various methods have been employed to accomplish color genlock; some past practices and present procedures are reviewed. A new method using the vertical-interval control space is discussed."
"For program integration all video sources must be in raster phase as well as in color phase. The usual color genlock technique permits the integration point to be in phase with only one of the sources at a time. Dissolves, special effects, etc., between any two remotes are therefore impossible. The Remote Sync System permits all of the remote points to be color- and raster-phased semiautomatically. Color and raster phase is available for a fixed time after the remote has been “talked-in.” Using an automatic video-delay line at the integration point and using highly stable subcarrier oscillators, the system provides hours of color and raster phase. This time can be even further extended if occasional manual corrections are made at the remote point or at the integration point."
"Television program production frequently requires synchronization or locking of signals originating at different locations. When signals are locked together, undesirable transients are eliminated and special effects may be used to increase the interest of a program. Equipment which permits color lock to be obtained between a master station and several remotes anywhere in the continental United States is the basis for the wire-lock system now installed in several broadcasting plants. With this equipment, both color lock and horizontal and vertical (raster) lock are established automatically without adjustment by the operator."
"After the panelists summarized the respective systems covered by the four papers published above, discussion was invited by the Moderator. This discussion took place on April 21, 1969, at the Miami Beach SMPTE Technical Conference"
"A complete photometric description of the angular distribution of light reflected or transmitted by any material is given by a goniophotometric curve or curves in which luminance is plotted as a function of reflection or transmission spread angle. However, the determination of these data can be a complicated operation. — To allow more rapid and easy evaluation of front-projection screen materials, a simplified abridged version of a goniophotometer has been developed. This instrument compares material at certain preselected significant reflection angles. It has been found to be useful for quickly evaluating almost any sort of diffusing material. In order to make the instrument more versatile, a transmittance attachment has also been designed to permit similar evaluations for transmitting samples. The complete instrument is described and several examples of its use are shown."
"Line source electroluminescent (EL) diodes of the silicon carbide type record pulse-width modulating timing-code signals on 16mm motion-picture films at frame rates from 2 to 500 frames/s, and at pulse rates from 10 to 10,000/s. A capability of recording up to 1500 frames/s is indicated. The diodes are operated in a timing block designed for the Milliken DBM-3, 4 or 5 camera with maximum frame rate of 500 frames/s, Type EF color film (ASA 160) being used for maximum frame rate tests. Recording slit dimensions are 0.075 in by less than 0.010 in. Diode and timing block considerations are presented. Also discussed are multichannel diodes to record digital data “words” across the sound record channel width and expanded digital data records along the length of the film."
"An additive printer for higher production rate of reduction printing of 16mm from 35mm negatives has scene-to-scene color correction, density modulation and a steadier print with increased sharpness. It is readily convertible to a blow-up mode from 16mm negative to 35mm positive; film movements are of the registration pin type. Printing is done at 120 ft/min on the 35mm side, with the capability of going faster; negatives of various shrinkages can be accommodated. The machine has a multiple-length selective-fade shutter which is tape-controlled, and provides A & B printing capability, with intermixed lengths of fades and/or dissolves. A number of features provide simpler operation and greater safety measures, such as air-actuated trips which automatically stop the machine in the event of a film break, separate drive or synchronized drive for the negative and positive heads, built-in air-vacuum squeegees on both negative and positive films and multiple-speed selection."
"An editing bench has been designed as a unit for editing 16mm film. The editing machine is power-driven and is able to mix sound records to approximate the finished result; it operates at variable speed and passes tape splices reliably. The screen size (9 by 12 in) is designed to provide a normal viewing angle at the working distance of the operator or to a small group of people in the vicinity. The bench is self-contained and is intended for use back to back with a “searching bench,” which provides a circular flow pattern in which the film is first broken down and organized, then sequenced over a light-box and finally assembled in the machine. In designing the editing bench the different requirements for editing 16mm and 35mm film were taken into consideration, including such factors as the frequent use of “voice-over” narration in nontheatrical films."
"A new motion-picture duplicating film, Eastman Direct (Positive) MP Film 5360, is available for duplicating black-and-white and color prints in one step using a standard black-and-white positive process. These silver image prints may be conveniently used as work prints, musical scoring prints, and prints for other editing purposes. This new film has a fine grain direct positive emulsion which is ortho-chromatic sensitive (sensitive to blue and green light). Techniques for using this film to produce black-and-white duplicate negatives as well as work prints are described."
"Step signals passed through sharp-cutoff phase-equalized low-pass filters produce symmetrical ringing transients. The subjective effects of the first two symmetrical transients on television displays were investigated. It was found that first transients whose magnitudes ranged from 2% to 22% of the picture signal amplitude enhanced the quality of the picture. A 12% first transient was found to be the subjective optimum for a noiseless television system and provided a subjective bandwidth improvement of about 2:1. For first transients at 6% of the signal amplitude, a statistically significant difference was obtained between a noiseless channel and one with added noise at an SNR of about 40 dB. Although there was considerable tolerance to second transients when associated with first transients of greater magnitude, they always degraded the quality of the picture."
"It is desirable that television films have characteristics specially suited to the viewing conditions and contrast-handling ability of the TV system. With modern telecine techniques, a wide range of contrast in films can be handled successfully. Electronic enhancement of the color saturation in the reproduced picture is now in operational use. Despite these improvements, it is desirable that television films should have characteristics specially suited to the viewing conditions and contrast-handling ability of the television system."
"Recent refinements of semiconductors have permitted the variable-gain function of the vacuum tube to be duplicated by a semiconductor device of improved performance. When this refinement is combined with the present circuit technology of video processing amplifiers it becomes entirely feasible to design and fabricate a high-performance, video-processing AGC amplifier without the limitations of earlier equipment. Operational functions and certain circuit descriptions for such an amplifier are described."
"A description is given of a recent aeroballistic payload contract proposal using motion pictures. Pulse-timing systems, high-speed strobe flash and possible uses of television are discussed."
"Three methods of reducing the final wash requirement in the Eastman Color Print process are reviewed: (1) higher final wash temperatures; (2) hypo clearing baths; and (3) oxidation of thiosulfate to sulfate. A sulfite clearing bath at pH 5.8 followed by a short final wash is a practical and effective technique of hypo removal. Normal dye stability can be expected as long as proper film emulsion pH (range 5.0 to 6.0) and residual hypo (less than 4/μg/cm2) levels are maintained."
"Test films are essential to permit simplified measurement of signal level and frequency response in magnetic recording so that the industry can conveniently achieve interchangeability of program material. For all film and tape formats, calibration of a test film requires that first a reference reproducer be established and calibrated over the audio spectrum of interest, and second that the test film be examined with this standardized reproducer. There is no other known procedure for calibrating multi-frequency magnetic test films of sufficient relevance, reliability, and reproducibility. The extensive literature on magnetic recording/-reproducing theory is reviewed to justify the details of reference reproducer calibration, and to emphasize that the magnetic film systems incorporate some parameters which have not previously been recognized in the calibration of magnetic tape systems. The theoretical basis for a recommended super-8 characteristic is presented. By reference to this broader review of the magnetic theory, intercomparisons of the U.S. and international standards for both film and tape are presented. We have used the most probable interpretations of these documents (in the absence of a precise exposition of the intent of most committees), from whence it is apparent there is a frequent need for either clarification or revision."
"In order to have interchangeable tape recordings, standards are needed for flux-frequency response and for the absolute value of the recorded flux. It is shown that the recorded signal is best measured and specified as the “shortcircuit flux per unit track width”; measurements techniques are reviewed. The need for equalization and the division into recording and reproducing equalization are developed. Standard equalizations of many organizations are shown as flux-frequency responses. Standard reference fluxes and operating levels are tabulated and discussed. The terms necessary for response and level standardization are proposed and defined and, since terms are not defined in presently published standards, those defined here are compared with usages of the standards."
"Test films for super-8 magnetic sound have not been available until recently. As a first step toward standardization, test films have now been recorded and calibrated. A method of calibrating a reference reproducer is described. Problems attending recording and testing with the required accuracy are discussed. A description of the equipment emphasizes the effort required to produce a number of nearly identical test films meeting high quality standards. Examples of representative calculations are shown to simplify future preparation of test films."
"Viewing conditions for color film for television and television monitors are very important for picture evaluation and in developing color rendering specifications for color cameras. The CTPC, representative of the broadcast and allied industries in Canada, has formulated recommended practices for viewing conditions. The Recommended Practice published here is one of those being designed to improve and standardize television operational practices in Canada."
"The year 1968 appeared to be a year of consolidation and application of many of the technological advances that had been made during the previous years in the disciplines covered by the Society."
"A Person entering on the important and honorable office of President of this Society is compelled to evaluate its situation; to consider the activities that should continue without great change; to foresee the opportunities for increasing the value of the Society to its membership; and to plan for new contributions by the Society to the industrial and social complex surrounding it."
"With the advent of hardened emulsions, high-temperature processing and processing solutions with high electrochemical energy, the “wet” processing of silver halide photographic film has reached a plateau where the rate of processing is fast becoming “drier limited,” particularly for wide film. The drier itself may now exceed in size the rest of the machine, and consume the major portion of the total electrical energy required, in addition to increasing the power and equipment rating of the environmental air-conditioning system. A summary of the drying process is made together with a review and comparison of technologies by which a drying rate in excess of 100 ft/min can be obtained with higher overall efficiency, and with compactness of mechanical design. The results of studies conducted by the authors are included."
"The basic assumptions and relationships used in converting low light level TV laboratory-measured performance data to anticipated “real-world” performance data are set forth. How visual range (distance) can be determined for specific low light level conditions, the effects of factors such as target size, requirements for recognition, scene reflectance, contrast, f/number, transmission, field of view, atmospheric effects, and by camera movement or image motion are discussed briefly in regard to the performance predictions."
"Manually operated tracking cameras are inadequate for photographic coverage of high-speed missile tests due to the slow reaction time of the operator. An Automatic Laser Tracker was developed for the Missile Development Test Track at Holloman Air Force Base to provide accurate close-up photography of these tests. The electrooptical tracking system can follow a rocket sled traveling at Mach 6 at a closest approach of 1000 ft. The system is described and the results of tracking tests are presented."
"Continuous projection of motion pictures has been used primarily in film editing. With the latest developments of motion-picture usage in the education, industrial and amateur fields, the cartridge as well as sound has become an important part of the projection industry; thus the continuous projection system has additional importance. A basic improvement of the continuous projection system is the use of prisms or vibrating mirrors. The existing problems and how they have been overcome in prism projection are discussed."
"A method has been developed for automatic focusing. A light source emits a very narrow modulated beam of infrared rays toward the subject on which the lens is to be focused. The radiation diffused by the subject is caught by a receiver that forms an annular image, the axial position of which depends on the distance between the diffusing subject and the lens. That position is detected in the classical way by means of a pair of photoresistors tending to establish a state of mutual balance. The contrivance with the two photoresistors is linked to the focusing device of the lens through a simple cam and lever mechanism."
"Design considerations for a versatile and efficient modern television theater include special attention to audience seating and technical control. Major design areas discussed are (1) the architectural considerations for mechanized seating and variable audience arrangements and (2) electronic and human engineering problems involved in developing a facility of this kind."
"In a new system of varioscopic cinematography, the image ratio of the screen changes in the process of film presentation according to its contents. The image emphasizes rectangular and horizontal, vertical and square dimensions. In the process of further experimental work on 70mm film, important techniques, parameters and facilities for variofilm shooting, printing and projection were established. Creative-artistic, psychophysiological and technical-economical aspects of these problems were considered. Preconditions were created for practical application of the new system of varioscopic cinematography in professional motion pictures."
"The projection of scenic backgrounds in television studios has not been entirely satisfactory, mainly because of the small (about 6- by 8-ft) size of the picture projected by available equipment. Improved projectors have eliminated certain drawbacks but the light output of equipment used in a conventional manner continues to limit the size of the projected picture. The principle of obtaining more efficient utilization of projected light by placing a projector in an on-axis retroreflective configuration has been known for some time. It has been found that the single-gun, single-lens video projector can be employed in this manner to produce both larger background pictures and provide the versatility of obtaining pictures transmitted via cable from a television camera or video tape playback source."
"Overlay or replacement of parts of a monochrome TV picture with corresponding parts of a different picture is accomplished with a new technique using pulsed-light background which enables a silhouette switching pulse to be derived by means of suitable video processing requiring a field-storage delay. This pulse is independent of the tonal range of the subject being overlaid, thus avoiding certain disadvantages of the conventional brightness separation method."
"A Central Institute has been developed from the Film Service Department of the University of Utrecht into a full-scale inter-university instructional resources institute. At first (in 1950) the department made films for a bacteriology course. After winning several awards, other universities sought to use its facilities. The new body, called the Film and Science Foundation (SFW), was founded in 1956 and subsidized by the Ministry of Education. Other facilities were added, including closed-circuit television and a mobile unit which contained a Plumbicon multipurpose chain and a color TV chain. In 1965, a quadruplex video-tape recorder was acquired. A new building has a studio complex for color TV and film, an administrative building, an experimental lecture hall with TV transmission facilities and a school for training scientific photographers, cinematographers and TV technicians."
"A new technique allows random access to any one of 1,000 or more still pictures. These images may also be synchronized with an audio program. The heart of this system is the video disc which provides a most instantaneous transfer of video information to users. To link these pictures with an audio system, digital picture addresses are added to the audio. These addresses correspond to the video tracks containing the desired pictures. Composite audio program/picture address data are transferred at high speed from the audio reproducer to the user's audio buffer. When this transfer is complete, the user may begin listening to the program and receiving associated pictures."
"A lightweight screen-brightness meter has been designed for use in 35mm (and 70mm) motion-picture installations in which numerous variables must be considered. The calibration of the instrument is based on the color temperature range involved, the response time requirements caused by projector shutters, plus the numerous factors of electrical and photometric sensitivities. The use of a screen-brightness meter at a projection site must take into account the area measurement on the screen and the short-term variations in brightness caused by the illumination source."
"One of the problems involved in the operation of drive-in theaters as opposed to in-door theaters is that of illumination. For example, screen brightness levels for an indoor theater may be 12 to 16 fL, whereas brightness levels of drive-in theaters are usually no more than 8 fL. Informed selection of projection lenses will aid in improving screen illumination. Tests were made of various lenses and illumination techniques to determine the best solution of the drive-in illumination problem."
"Previous treatments of the film preservation problem have tended to concentrate on special aspects in isolation. This paper stresses the importance of a total procedural pattern involving selection, acquisition, storage, testing, cataloging and the safeguarding of preservation masters and describes the work of the British National Film Archive in putting such a pattern into practice."
"Extensive work done in 1966 is summarized in this posthumous publication. As a result of the presentation by Mr. Lasarev at the 101st SMPTE Conference, a Subcommittee on Tape Transport Geometry was formed within the SMPTE Video-Tape Recording Committee; and it was decided that one of the duties of the subcommittee would be the writing of an extensive tutorial paper on the subject of time-base errors affected by transport geometry. Because of the extensiveness of the treatment planned, the paper was divided into three sections for presentation as parts were completed. Two parts have been verbally presented at SMPTE Winter TV Conferences and will be published soon in the SMPTE Journal. However, because of the long time involved in preparing the third and last part, as well as the untimely death of Mr. Lasarev in 1968, it has been decided to publish Mr. Lasarev's original paper. The paper only touches upon subjects which will be covered much more extensively ultimately, but it does serve to alert the reader to problem areas which can affect the quality of tape recordings."
"The extensive television coverage traditionally accorded to the national political conventions in this country requires field-type broadcasting facilities just as elaborate and sophisticated as the permanent facilities available in the best-equipped television network broadcast centers. The mobile color broadcasting system used by the CBS Television Network to cover the 1968 political conventions is described."
"A video source usually means a camera, video-tape machine or a film chain; but the video outputs of studios (not normally classed as video sources) are sometimes used as sources. If a studio is used as a video source, there are no pulse time delays which can make its video output synchronous with other sources. Building out the studio's active video path length to be equal to 1 H or multiples thereof, plus sync retiming, results in studio outputs which are effectively equal to zero."
"New transistorized equipment has changed many basic concepts of television station system design. The studio building of WCAU-TV was built in 1951 of steel I-beam construction with no supporting walls. The building contains 100,000 ft2 of floor space with four studios. A floor plan was designed to provide the most efficient possible layout for operating areas. Central control, production control, announce booth, rack room, video tape, telecine and the shop are together physically and comprise the Central Technical Area. One of the outstanding features of the entire television station is its spaciousness. The entire design was human-engineered to put all necessary things within easy reach of the operator. The best available, most modern equipment was used."
"When the motion-picture production division of the Instructional Media Center at Michigan State University moved its entire production facility to a new building, the sound installation was completely disassembled and reassembled. Certain new systems were installed at the time, such as a reversible selsyn interlock system. However, it soon became evident that the mechanical, synchronous motor-driven footage counter located in the mixing console would no longer be adequate due to its inability to reverse direction. The integrated-circuit module seemed to be the best alternative system, so an up-down four-digit counter with numerical readout was designed and constructed, which would silently count actual film footage or time. Several other functions were incorporated in the counter design."
"A new technique is described to wind filmstrips to a small diameter using a tapered spool with a flange. After an initial period of practice an experienced person can wind 25 prints per minute and place them in an open-type container. The winder uses a standard motor and is a simple tool which can be made without difficulty."
"The presentation of a motion-picture is the ultimate realization of the talents of a multitude of creative artists. In many cases the motion-picture will ultimately be projected under poor conditions. Good viewing conditions are discussed, especially the important part that the skill of the projectionist plays in achieving the goal. The damaging effect of visual distractions, picture definition and focus, screen illumination and brightness and picture steadiness are dealt with, as well as the part that the screen itself plays in good presentation, the reason for screen masking, picture overlap and other factors all of which add up to good picture presentation. Also the question of correct sound volume, the effect of extraneous noises, the reasons for poor listening conditions and the place for nonsynchronous sound reproduction are discussed. Care and maintenance of the motion-picture projector and the film itself are dealt with, including a case for the extension of use of test films and equipment as a necessary factor in the achievement of good sound and picture presentation."
"The meeting was called to order by the President, as Chairman, at the conclusion of the Get-Together Luncheon, and, since the Executive Secretary held 1069 signed proxies, a quorum was declared to be present in person and by proxy."
"A previous note on the activities of the Ad Hoc Color Television Study Committee of the JCIC contained a report of its meeting on November 20, 1968, and of the field tests in Chicago on December 18 and 19, 1968.* More recently, meetings have been held on January 15, 1969, and on March 11, 1969. This note is a consolidated report of those two meetings."
"Discussion of proposed actions for controlling publication of reports SMPTE Engineering Committee activities resulted in returning the proposal to the preparing ad hoc committee for revision. This proposal was given Standards Committee circulation in March and both the written comments received from members not in attendance and the oral comments of those present were thoroughly discussed."
"The 1969 Spring Conference of the Association for High-Speed Photography (which includes the British National Committee for High-Speed Photography) was held March 31, 1969, at Imperial College, London. Sessions were conducted in the lecture theater of the Physics Building. Nine papers were presented, dealing with various aspects of short-duration light sources. Some 100 members of the Association attended the Conference. The Conference was opened by Association Chairman D. P. C. Thackeray who welcomed the members of the audience and who introduced the Session Chairmen, P. B. N. Nuttall-Smith and N. Dombrowski."
"A significant benefit of the super 8 system is that it now makes the motion picture medium accessible for small-group and individual viewing. Implications of this breakthrough are discussed in terms of 8mm statistics and potential markets. Six key attributes of super 8 are flexibility, accessibility, repeatability, controllability, compatibility and profitability. Compatibility and performance factors influencing the choice of a super 8 sound system and a cartridge design are discussed in terms of the eventual potentialities of this new format in screen communication."
"Until ten years ago no extensive professional use was made of 8mm as a release-print material. Although some progress was made during the early sixties, it was not until the introduction of the super 8 format that 8mm received consideration as a prime medium for education and instructional technology. Expanding the use of films to many new areas of information transmittal now becomes a definite possibility. To realize this potential, however, it was recognized not only that better hardware was needed but that the entire film system needed upgrading. In improving the films in the system, it was the aim to produce a screen image from super 8 that was comparable in quality to the then existing 16mm systems. The step-by-step progress that has been made over the last few years toward achieving this goal is traced and predictions are made. The presentation is accompanied by a series of films."
"A brief review of 8mm sound cartridge/cassette systems is presented as a basis for views on the future directions of product development in the field and what is being done to spur further growth of the market. Technical aspects of optical versus magnetic sound is covered."
"Commercially acceptable optical sound quality on Super 8 composite prints can be realized in film laboratories on a routine production basis with the present state of technology. In order to insure a high state of consistency in sound quality it is necessary to specify and control the parameters which circumscribe this extremely small format. The parameters which must be defined are in the three general areas of recording, duplication and reproduction; these are described in detail. The various formats now used to produce super 8 optical sound prints are described. Characteristics of the formats which effect production capability and quality are detailed. These films, useful for maintaining consistency of the system are described. A wide range of program material is demonstrated on various reproducers and compared to the original tape master."
"The present large-scale utilization of 16mm in the field of educational, business and religious films seems to be undisturbed by the growth of super 8. The smaller film has made feasible audio-visual techniques which have created new and expanding markets. Samples of technical subjects are shown to illustrate some of the areas in which motion pictures, because of super 8, are being used widely for the first time."
"A brief review of the 8mm format is given. There was an increased interest in professional 8mm in the early sixties. The potential of the 8mm-width print film was retarded by the lack of existing standards. Standardization is essential to provide a base for widespread use and worldwide distribution. The possibility of 8mm print footage surpasses both 35mm and 16mm if the industry adopts the necessary standards."
"Most 8mm release prints are derived from productions originally photographed on either 16mm or 35mm materials. Several methods of printing involving reduction steps have been used commercially. Some of the printing systems used and some of the printing equipment that has been or is being used by different laboratories for the making of large quantities of 8mm release prints are described."
"Super 8 films, cameras, projectors and auxilliary equipment may properly be described as comprising a system in which the common super 8 film format is intended to serve the widest possible variety of photographic display applications. Subsystem needs include a projection cartridge offering film loading, cleaning and editing simplicity in addition to operating reliability and handling convenience. A super 8 projector design utilizing a new film cartridge system is described. A number of unique features involved in the cartridge and projection system are covered in some detail. These features include the cartridge mounting, automatic film take-up assembly and automatic rewind and review."
"The introduction of super 8 motion pictures into the Department of Defense (DOD) is an event of major proportions in the audio-visual field. Within the DOD the applications of this relatively new media are endless and will be used to serve a common purpose in indoctrination, education, training and orientation. The lightweight, simplified equipment with its accompanying lower cost has made it possible to use motion pictures in more places and in more ways. The key to the future use of super 8 is to be found in acceptance and agreement by industry that a universal standard for the compatible cartridge is an absolute necessity. The economy in laboratory and print processing will open the gates to unlimited demand and large-scale inventories of super 8 film and equipment. The basic problem confronting the DOD as it affects the future of super 8 is the desire to introduce proprietary cartridges and projectors into the system, thereby possibly permitting a reduction in the role of the Armed Forces as a producer and supplier of training films. Prior to any standardization or commitment by the DOD, all available products under development on the market will be examined."
"The introduction and acceptance of super 8 has created completely new problems for the motion-picture industry, lying in all areas of production and in laboratories. In addition, completely new procedures have had to be established for handling and control of material being produced for release in 8mm and in the release prints themselves. All aspects of this film format are discussed from the viewpoint of a producer-distributor, considering the laboratory area from a customer's standpoint."
"The super 8 system was commercially introduced in 1965. Coincident with this introduction, proposals to standardize film and equipment were made to the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers, followed by proposals for international recommendations. Commercial acceptance has traditionally been a guideline for national standardization to insure that through practical experience the dimensions and specifications are reasonably valid. To obtain equivalent reliability, the early standardization of the super 8 system required the prerequisite of an informed industry. National standards have been approved on more than half of the 29 subjects of the super 8 system originally considered as standard proposals. Most of the remaining subjects have received engineering committee consideration and are in the final stages of approval. There is considerable feeling in the industry that there is insufficient standardization, principally in the use of super 8 sound film in cassette or cartridge projection systems. The SMPTE is expected to guide the establishment of standards; however, the Society cannot become involved in the comparative rating of competitive items."
"The merits of 8mm film in education are pointed out. Three factors necessary for creating a new aptitude are motivation, understanding and knowhow. Informative films show new methods (readiness). Educational films, which are usually short and silent, demonstrate events which cannot be observed directly, e.g., high-speed photography, time-lapse photography, microphotography and special effects. They give insight. Instructional films give knowhow for building a skill, especially when the student can practice what he learns from the film."
"The technical processing specifications for super 8 optical sound along with the characteristics of the sound system in the Technicolor loop cartridge projector is described. The channels available for preparing super 8 from various types of negatives (65mm, 35mm, 16mm sizes and 133, 185 and other aspect ratios) are discussed in detail. The use of super 8 in education, the capability film has to increase visual literacy and reduce the signal-to-noise ratio in the process of transmission of learning sequences are outlined. The situation regarding optical or magnetic, sound film standards by markets and equipment trends are reviewed. A live on-screen super 8 comparison to 16mm is presented."
"Standardization of cartridge systems is very desirable for the industry assuming certain criteria are met. Such a standard system should be: easy to use; reliable; of minimum cost; versatile, so as not to restrict the use of other projector features such as multiple play, rewind, and high or low speed projection; and adaptable, both to different markets and to various projector design. The Bell & Howell open loop or reel type rim drive cartridge system is described as a system to meet all the criteria given."
"Dr. Goldberg called upon the authors of the Symposium papers to assemble as a panel. Roland Connor took the place of Norwood L. Simmons; Col. William F. Gallogly and Walter Cappel were absent."
"Experience and continuing rapid development in electrical insulation have demonstrated the need for periodic review and revision of this document. During the time since the 1962 revision of this document, there has been a need for a more distinct separation of insulation systems and insulating materials. Confusion in nomenclature be tween insulating materials and insulation systems has continued to exist. This present document attempt to overcome this conflict through the complete separation of insulating materials from insulation systems and by the introduction of the temperature index concept for insulating materials. To clarify this separation a distinct section, Part IV, is now provided for insulating materials."
"The following \"Standard Definitions of Terms for Antennas\" is a cemprehensive revision of the 1948 \"Definitions of Terms.\" It also supersedes the definitions contained in the 1965 \"Test Procedure,\" although the changes in those definitions are few and relatively minor. As this work reached completion, the Antennas and Waveguides Committee divided into two separate committees, one on antennas and one on waveguides. These are now incorporated into the structures of the IEEE Group on Antennas and Propagation and the IEEE Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques, respectively. In general, the definitions assume that the antenna is not located in a medium such as a plasma, salt water, or the earth. In such cases, careful evaluation may be necessary to determine whether the term is applicable and how it can be properly employed. For terms that are quantitative it is understood that frequency must be specified. Those terms in which phase or polarization is a significant part of the definition imply a coherent source of power. Whenever a term is commonly used in other fields but has specialized significance in the field of antennas, this is noted in the title."
"This Test Procedure covers definition of terms, controlled test conditions, test apparatus, test methods, and data presentation, which form the basis for establishing performance criteria of mobile communication receivers designed to receive frequency-modulated waves in the frequency range from 25 to 1000 megahertz. Specific limits are not included; however, reference values that are not limited by the state of the art are provided. Test conditions, apparatus, and methods are based on known instrumentation and measuring techniques and are not restricted to any special apparatus other than necessary terminal simulators. Presentation of data has been standardized to the three forms of tabular, graphical, and empirical equations."
"This Standard presents a list of 123 terms for the study of radio wave propagation. Definitions are presented."
"The intent of this Test Procedure is to establish a uniform method by which the life of electronics transformer insulation systems can be compared. Thermal degradation is generally one of the major factors affecting the life of most insulating materials. It was chosen to be the major environmental factor in this Test Procedure. Other environmental factors, such as vibration,thermal shock, and moisture, have been included to simulate operating conditions. These factors have been chosen in such a way as to develop and disclose promptly any significant weaknesses during the temperature aging of an insulation system."
"This Standard presents criteria and requirements for the electric systems of nuclear generating stations specifically related to providing protection to the health and safety of the public. These are based on the following.(a) Redundant systems that require electric power are provided to cope with design basis events.(b) The conditions and the availability of the various portions of the systems following a design basis event cannot be predicted exactly.(c) The access to certain equipment following a design basis event may be limited for several months."
"Semiconductor radiation detectors have come into widespread use in recent years for detection and high-resolution spectroscopy of ionizing radiation. Both silicon and germanium detectors have been developed, with silicon finding its principal application in the detection and analysis of heavy charged particles. Germanium detectors with their relatively high atomic number (as compared with silicon) and with large sensitive volumes have come into widespread use in the detection and analysis of gamma radiation. The rapid development and utilization of these detectors have made desirable standard test procedures so that measurements may have the same meaning to all manufacturers and users. This Test Procedure is not intended to imply that all tests described herein are mandatory, but only that such tests as are carried out on completed devices should be performed in accordance with the procedures given.A companion document is \"Test Procedure for Amplifiers and Preamplifiers for Semiconductor RadiationDetectors,\" IEEE Standards Publication No. 301."
"The increasing variety of speech transmission systems has created a new problem for communication engineers. This problem consists of the subjective evaluation of the speech quality produced by these systems. For investigators interested only in the utilization of some procedure applicable to this problem, it was difficult to make a choice among the wide range of documented approaches. The IEEE Audio and Electroacoustics Group therefore formed a Subcommittee on Subjective Measurements, which has been charged with writing a Recommended Practice for speech quality measurement. The intent of the Subcommittee became to write a document that would facilitate the choice of method by reducing the variety of procedures to several which had been successful and looked promising for the future, and which could handle a variety of signals. By describing these methods in some detail, it would be possible for different laboratories to obtain comparable results and thus aid in the exchange of information. Because of the relatively early stage of the development of speech quality evaluation, the present document is intended to be a Recommended Practice, but not a long term standard, which would require speech quality measurement only according to the proposed methods. It is hoped that the document will generate additional investigation into problems of this type of measurement, and allow comparison of test data obtained in different laboratories. Thus, a body of experimental data may be generated that will be useful to future investigations as well as the improvement of the present practices. The Subcommittee expects that feedback from users of the practices will allow the revision and updating of the practices within a relatively short time period. It should be pointed out that the present practices evaluate only speech signals as they are generated by one-way speech communication systems. Systems, especially two-way systems, in which interactive communication takes place, cannot validly be evaluated by these methods. One of the directions, therefore, in which these practices might be updated in the future is by adding material on the evaluation of communications systems. It is the hope of the Subcommittee that the present document will be helpful in some way to people confronted with the task of making speech quality measurements. In order to guide its future work, the Subcommittee would appreciate that any technical comments about the usefulness of the documents, or any other comments or information about speech quality measurement, be sent to its Chairman, c/o the IEEE Audio and Electroacoustics Group, IEEE Headquarters."
"Semiconductor radiation detectors have come into widespread use in recent years for detection of ionizing radiation. Both silicon and germanium detectors have been developed with silicon finding its principal application in the detection and analysis of heavy charged particles. Germanium detectors with their relatively high atomic number (as compared with silicon) and with large sensitive volumes have come into widespread use in the detection and analysis of gamma radiation. The advent of semiconductor detectors has stimulated development of electronic instruments with characteristics that permit exploitation of their capabilities. This has made desirable standard test procedures so that measurements may have the same meaning to all manufacturers and users.This Test Procedure is not intended to imply that all tests described herein are mandatory, but only that such tests as are carried out should be performed in accordance with the procedures herein."
"Electric, power systems, having outgrown simplicity a long time ago, continue to require more and better protection as the demand for power increases and the need for reliability becomes greater. Protective relaying has met this challenge by providing more sensitive, higher speed relay systems that are inherently reliable. Among the more significant protective developments that furthered the economic design of power systems are pilot, relaying schemes and direct, transfer tripping over telephone channels. In recent years a growing need developed for more versatile wire-pilot relay systems and more secure means for direct transfer tripping. These factors, in addition to technological changes in telephone communication plants affecting availability of metallic, telephone circuits, led to the consideration of audio-tone signals over telephone channels for these functions. Since audio tones had already been employed extensively for less demanding applications—telemetering, telegraphy, dial signaling, etc.—it appeared logical that audio tones could also be employed successfully for remote tripping of circuit breakers and wire-pilot relaying."
"This Guide attempts to assist the power equipment operator in evaluating oil received in equipment and as filled at the installation site and to assist also in his efforts to maintain his oil in serviceable condition. It recommends and standardizes oil test and evaluation procedures, methods of reconditioning and reclaiming oil when necessary, and routines for restoring oxidation resistance by additions of inhibitors."
"Over the years, the isolated-phase bus has received widespread application in connecting the output of generators to step-up transformers. The trend toward generating units of larger capacity has dictated the need for higher rated isolated-phase bus designs. The increased losses associated with the higher capacity bus may be significant in the economic evaluation of alternate schemes or selection of equipment. The bus designer must know the magnitude and distribution of losses in order to keep temperature rises of bus components within the limits specified in USA Standard C37.20. In addition, the losses must be known to permit proper sizing of forced-cooling equipment whenever it is used.Various papers have been presented that deal with the determination of losses in isolated-phase bus enclosures. The difference in the results obtained for the same bus using various methods is of sufficient magnitude to cause concern. The industry has indicated the need for a guide for calculating losses to establish a common yardstick for establishing, evaluating, and applying different designs."
"The application guide for relay protection of squirrel-cage and wound-rotor induction motors presents a review of the generally accepted forms of motor protection and summarizes the use of relays and devices, singly and in combination, to enable the reader to properly select the necessary equipment to obtain adequate motor protection. The Guide is prepared primarily for the protection of three-phase integral-horsepower motors and refers to single- or two-phase motors only in special instances and only where specifically indicated. It is especially useful where the motor installation is sufficiently important, due to either its size or the consequences of motor malfunction, to justify specific design of the protective system. It also provides the information necessary to judge whether there are safety or economic reasons for such a specific design."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"Mica products commercially available for high voltage rotating machine insulation fall into two general categories: those made from reconstituted mica paper and those made from hand and machine laid mica splittings."
"Ten years ago the standard resin for Class H insulation was silicone. The volume of electrical equipment made for this thermal class was small, disproportionately small considering the engineering involved in the insulation. Accordingly, such insulation was expensive. Expanded use of high temperature insulation was contingent on attainment of lower cost, both in materials and process."
"Insulation paper is primarily used in electric motors as slot cells, coil separators and phase insulation in integral horsepower equipment. The slot cell being defined as the basic ground insulation that provides mechanical and dielectric barriers from the magnet wire to the stator core. This definition emphasizes that the insulation paper forming the slot cell is mainly ground insulation."
"The reliability of rotating electrical plant depends greatly on the quality of the insulation system."
"For many years designers of high voltage rotating electric equipment have been looking for high performance insulation systems which are low cost to manufacture and yet give high performance."
"There is a demand today for insulation which will give satisfactory service at 180C for periods of up to twenty years or more. Motors and other electrical equipment run hotter as a result of performance requirements placed upon them by the designer. Also, the new high speed transportation, mining, nuclear, and metal working installations are now operating in environments of high temperature and high humidity which place a severe electrical and mechanical stress on the insulation."
"For more than SO years the structural link across air-gap insulation has been achieved through ceramic materials. Over this long period of time major disabilities disclosed in system operation have been overcome. Infrequent failures that still occur have, as one might expect, causes extremely diverse: the improbable event, condition or specimen."
"The conditions leading to flashover in contaminated atmospheres are very complex and do not always permit simple choices of insulator types for good performance. Increased understanding concerning performance under salt contamination has been realized, and reasonably good correlation between artificially contaminated insulators and pollution under natural environment is possible."
"Previous research1 on 420 kV insulator strings, both in laboratory and in natural conditions, showed, on one hand, the large dispersion of the insulators' switching impulse performance characteristics in natural conditions, especially with regard to negative polarity stresses and, on the other hand, the practical impossibility of evaluating the behavior of the insulation under switching surges in natural conditions by simple correction of laboratory data for real atmospheric conditions, and for real conditions of humidity and relative air density in particular."
"Recent developments in filled epoxy resins have produced formulations which are rigid and yet have high flexural strength. These formulations exhibit good weatherability, thermal characteristics, and track resistance. Many applications have been made of these improved resins as described by Hofmann at the NEMA-IEEE Electrical Insulation Conference, 1968. In each case, the unique characteristics of epoxy resin have been used to eliminate problem areas, make an improved design, and lower costs."
"By facilitating the transmission and distribution of electrical energy at relatively low cost, overhead lines have played a very important role in the growth of our modern technological civilization and will continue to do so to an increasing extent in the future. For major electrification schemes the investment in overhead lines is between 20 and 40% of the total expenditure. Insulation accounts for about 10% of line cost at 132 kV, rising to approximately 25% at 750 kV."
"There has been an ever increasing need in the electrical-electronic industries for a long shelf life 100% solid impregnating resin that handles as easily as a conventional impregnating varnish and when properly processed results in a solidly filled coil. This was only formerly possible with a limited pot life one and two-component thermosetting systems or a hot melt thermoplastic product."
"The design of high voltage electrical apparatus has always been constrained by the properties and particularly the weaknesses of available insulating materials. The inevitable insulation surface poses special problems, enormously aggravated in situations where the insulation must be exposed to an environment that is less than ideal."
"Extensive development of encapsulated transformers for electrical distribution service has been going on since the late 1950's. During this period oil-filled pad-mounted and vault-type transformers have made rapid inroads toward replacing the older more conventional pole or overhead types. However, solid insulation or cast-type transformers are still not broadly marketed or have received customers' acceptance on the American electrical utilities scene. There is good reason for this. Many problems have been encountered, some of which progressive technology has solved and some of which even today offer a challenge to and tax the imagination and the economic resources of the industry."
"Since the introduction of the first commercial equipment for encapsulating electronic devices in liquid thermosetting resin systems under pressure was announced a couple of years ago, interest in this approach has intensified. The process seemed to combine the best elements of transfer molding with the lower pressures and viscosities associated with liquid resins for what appeared to be a very economical and high speed means of encapsulating devices under less severe conditions than the transfer molding approach. Emphasis was placed on fast cycles, a more economic material, and less damage to the components being encapsulated due to the inherently lower molding pressures. The material being most highly touted at this time was an acrylic modified polyester resin capable of long storage times (several hours to several days) at room temperature but with a relatively short cure (several seconds to a few minutes) at the normal molding temperature of approximately 300°F."
"Urethane resins in recent years have become accepted in the electrical field for use as wire enamels, conformal coatings, potting and encapsulating compounds. These resins are prepared through the reaction of a polyfunctional isocyanate with a polyfunctional hydroxyl (polyol) or amine containing compound. Since there are a number of isocyanates, polyols, or amines which can be used, the terms urethane or polyurethane must be considered as generic rather than specific."
"In recent years it has become increasingly evident that cyclo-aliphatic epoxy resins offer unique advantages as a high voltage insulating material. Generally, these systems contain in addition to the epoxy resin, hardeners, modifiers, catalysts, and fillers. It is essential that all these formulating variables be examined carefully in order to optimize physical and electrical properties. Previously available cycloaliphatic epoxy resins generally produced rigid, castings with marginal toughness. Typical modifiers could improve cast toughness, but at some sacrifice in other properties. A new resin system is discussed that improves toughness while minimizing loss in other properties, particularly weathering and electrical properties. Since SO to 65 weight percent of these castings is filler, this portion of the system deserves attention also. Both silica and hydrated alumina have been recommended for outdoor high voltage applications. Silica offers possible advantages for cast physical properties, however inclined plane arc-track data clearly indicate that little, if any, can be tolerated in a cast formulation for high voltage applications. Even with cycloaliphatic epoxies, silica filler can cause carbon formation under an electrical arc. Thus to prevent this, hydrated alumina must be used. Laboratory studies using hydrated alumina filled systems have shown that both physical and electrical properties can be upgraded. Specifically, sodium, in the form of its various salts can significantly increase electrical losses. The data shows correlations between both the total and soluble sodium salt content of hydrated alumina and electrical properties. Data is also presented that shows that absorbed moisture on hydrated alumina degrades electrical properties. Finally, coupling agents, which can greatly enhance physical and electrical properties are discussed. The data show that a threefold increase in toughness is possible through coupling agent addition to a hydrated alumina filled cycloaliphatic system. Further, significant increases in inclined plane arc-track erosion resistance are possible through coupling agent use. Two techniques for incorporating these coupling agents, integral blends and filler pre-treatment are detailed and compared."
"The design of a motor insulating system to meet all of the service functions required of the coolant pumping system of a nuclear power plant is a challenge that has not as yet been fully analyzed. Nor has the state-of-the-art for predicting functional performance of motor insulating materials and systems been sufficiently developed to meet the requirements established. First of all, the AEC has specified that this motor, located inside the containment vessel of the reactor, must operate under normal ambient conditions of the enclosure (thermal and radiation aging in air) for a lifetime of forty years. Also, in the event of an accidental breech in the water coolant line the pump will have to be restarted and operate for a period of from one month to one year in an ambient of high-pressure steam, radioactive contaminants, and corrosive decontaminant sprays. Even after the forty years of normal aging it must be capable of performing in this severe environmental exposure. At present, there is no way of comparing insulation durability for such a complex environment. The only system for rating magnet wire insulation now available provides a relative thermal life index, determined at 20,000 hours. Designs of electric motors based upon this rating emphasize thermal life in air. Any change from this basic environment reduces the reliability of the thermal life prediction. In fact, it may be rendered useless. Steam exposures, too, are known to accelerate the decomposition through the mechanism of hydrolysis. Observations reported in this paper will serve to illustrate the seriousness of this effect."
"With an ever increasing number of applications for insulation materials to operate in environments which include ionizing radiation as one of the deteriorating forces, it is becoming more necessary to establish uniform reliable test procedures to evaluate the radiation resistance of these materials. Preliminary selections for specific purposes then can be made in accordance with the relative stability of the specific property or properties which are needed for the application. To assure reliable comparisons of radiation endurance levels reported by different investigators the primary objectives of those responsible for standardization are aimed at assuring: (1) an accurate definition of the radiation fields in which materials are exposed and the total energy absorbed by the specimen; (2) standardized conditions for conducting exposures, including pre- and post-irradiation history; and (3) the procedures adopted for testing the mechanical and electrical properties of materials which will clearly define the radiation degradation of the individual property being tested. Progress to achieve these requirements is moving rapidly due to the vigorous efforts of several national and international organizations."
"In both radiation research and radiation processing dosimetry, one of the most important problems dealt with by the experimenter and technician is the proper choice of a dosimetry system."
"Research on the effects of ionizing radiation on plastics has been underway for at least the past two decades. This work initially was followed carefully by industry, but only limited commercial development resulted, due mainly to the relatively high costs of radiation processing. Hence for a time interest sagged. There remain, however, some applications to which radiation processing is particularly well suited, such as the curing of organic coatings, the finishing of textiles, and the improvement of electrical insulation. In these, the use of radiation allows the replacement of high-temperature curing cycles with a room temperature operation; resulting in easier process control and freedom from problems of overcure or thermal degradation. Much of the recent work has been done in these areas, and this, together with decreased equipment costs, is resulting in steadily increasing commercial use."
"Our sophisticated technical civilization produced a large number of highly specialized scientific fields, some of which seem to have very little in common. Recently, however, this trend of extreme specialization shows signs of a definite reversal. The main reason for this is the increasing recognition of the basic sciences as an all-important foundation on which all knowledge has to be built, and to which scientists and engineers have to reach back more and more frequently in their everyday work."
"Manufacturers must make increasingly effective use of insulating materials to remain competitive in the marketplace. Users, on the other hand, are becoming increasingly conscious of the savings in capital cost which can be effected by loading equipment to its economic limit, which often is determined by its thermal capability.1,2 Governmental and other agencies which are concerned with safety and reliability are seeking better means of establishing standards of thermal performance. All of these trends have resulted in growing concern with the present methods of thermally classifying insulating materials and apparatus."
"Increasing demand for compactness leads to the steadily increasing use of hard insulation, which may be a solid or a hardened liquid. The insulation thickness required to separate potentials above nominal levels generally create volume variations by expansion and contraction which may be appreciably different from that of the surrounding enclosure. This volume deviation between the insulation and its available space leads either directly to holes or \"voids\" or, in case of the material overflowing, to voids when earlier conditions are restored. This relative motion of the insulation can result in bending or breaking of wires or electric hardware suspended therein or to excessive potential stress when voids occur in regions already highly stressed. Restricting this volume variation to regions of low stress and segments therein carrying no component resolves the problem."
"In the past few years the major concentration of research on electric breakdown is gases has been on identification of the basic processes of ionization in the electric field leading to the spark-over. Townsend1 presented the model initially in 1900 and introduced several coefficients, characteristic of the ionization potential and the many secondary processes that contribute to ionization of the gas between electrodes. A review of the fundamental considerations of breakdown was given by Berg at the previous EI Conference.2 This paper is intended to delve less into the mathematical derivations of the breakdown phenomena and limit discussion to the considerations of Paschen's Law as observed experimentally at pressure well above the minimum."
"For many years, design engineers have been faced with perplexing problems in finding suitable high-temperature electrical insulating materials to meet specific application requirements. Because these materials are widely used as supporting insulation for resistance wires in high-heat applications such as toaster elements, etc., they are more commonly referred to in the industry as heater plates. Many types of heater plates are being offered today which include materials such as: mechanically fastened mica splittings; organic bonded mica and mica paper plates, i.e., plates bonded with fugitive, easily volatilized resins, treated asbestos boards, glass bonded mica plates, inorganic bonded mica and mica paper plates, certain ceramics, and semi-inorganic silicone bonded mica paper heater plate. Obviously, some of these materials possess individual property or economic advantages over the others, but none is ideal, and selecting the optimum material to meet one's particular needs is not easy."
"Electrical insulation requirements have been raised considerably over the past few years as applications have been developed that feature extreme conditions which could not be handled by older insulation systems. Typical of the more stringent requirements is the area of high temperature applications which become more numerous each year because of performance, physical space, and other factors."
"NEMA Grade GPO-3 polyester glass-mat-sheet laminates \"are intended for applications where resistance to carbon tracking and low flammability and self-extinguishing properties are required.\" 1 Laminates of this type have been manufactured since 1960 without much improvement in performance characteristics."
"The V7000-15 and V7001-10 resins have been available to the electrical industry for over two years. When these resins were introduced commercially, thermal endurance data for glass mat laminates was presented, demonstrating that the resins have excellent potential for applications where good retention of both mechanical and electrical properties is required."
"Under a contract to the Arthur D. Little Company, subcontractors to the Bendix Corporation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, a requisition was made to design and manufacture a cable which will be used to connect a thermal moon probe with a transmitter. The purpose of the system is to make highly accurate temperature measurements on the moon's surface."
"The allylic resins are well known among thermosets for their excellent electrical characteristics and in particular for their ability to retain these properties under adverse environmental conditions. Properties are little affected on prolonged exposure to high temperatures, moisture and aqueous and organic chemical media. Allylic resins are supplied commercially as prepolymers which, when filled with appropriate minerals and reinforcing fibers, serve as the basis for a series of molding compounds. They are also used as electrical, structural and decorative laminates."
"The \"cordwood\" arrangement for packaging miniature components in a high-density array, appears to provide very little mechanical compliance and it has been suspected that under certain conditions relatively severe stresses might be produced on components, their leads, and connections. Considerable data have been published on the hydrostatic pressures induced within encapsulating materials,1–7 but there seems to be no quantitative information on the stresses occurring in the components themselves."
"The original concept of the welded cordwood module was a unifunctional device with low packaging density containing the most rugged components available. The end results, therefore, was an encapsulated item with stable external dimensions. The produced module was either usable and functional, or a rejected part which would be discarded without great economic loss. Obviously, for a successful operation, the proportion of the former to the latter must be high."
"Silicone resins, because of their outstanding electrical properties, excellent moisture resistance and outstanding thermal stability have been used for many years in numerous electrical and electronic applications."
"During the past year, a new one-part silicone resin encapsulant has been developed, characterized by a long pot life coupled with quick curing when heat is applied. \"Open tank\" pot life is about three months, and a shelf life of nine months or more at room temperature in storage. Curing times range from 30 minutes at 150°C to 240 minutes at 100°C, for sections i inch in thickness. These curing characteristics were developed to fill specific needs for an encapsulant which could be used in high volume, automated electronic packaging operations."
"The subject of combustible gas in power transformers is not a new one. This paper is intended to provide a basis for tests and to explain briefly the various methods of testing and evaluation of results. In examining transformers that have failed in service, it is often found that the failure has progressed for some time with evidence of heating insulation and oil. It is evident that many faults are preceded by an incipient stage of gradual deterioration with gas evolution. The relation of the character of a fault to the composition of the gases produced was investigated about 40 years ago by M. Bucholz in connection with his development of the Buchholz relay.1 The Buchholz relay collects a sample of gas (Figure 1) which can be analyzed in several ways which will be explained shortly. Then in 1959, McGraw-Edison announced that it was using a method of total combustible gas testing which does not require a separate gas analysis and is much simpler.2"
"In microwave stripline devices circuit performance is directly dependent on the effective dielectric properties of the substrate. Variations in effective substrate properties in production, after thermal shock, with varying temperature, and as a result of moisture exposure can degrade circuit performance, change frequency response, and often render circuits inoperative."
"As the need for greater speed of electronic circuit operation accelerates, the determination of changes in the fabrication of multilayer interconnection boards (MIBs) becomes increasingly significant to the achievement of optimum circuit performance. Changes in the insulating layer thickness, for example, can affect design values such as those specified for: characteristic impedance of printed circuit conductor paths, signal pulse delay time, signal attenuation, built-in capacitance, and desired or undesired capacitive coupling within the printed circuits."
"Several methods are presently being used to determine the thermal endurance or thermal index of insulating varnishes. However, none of these methods is truly acceptable to all interested persons."
"Bondable magnet wire was introduced to the industry over twenty years ago. Since that time, millions of pounds of bondable wire have been used in a wide variety of applications which includes transformers, lift magnets, solenoids, bobbinless coils, clutch coils, television yoke coils and field coils for stationary and rotating windings."
"In recent years, submersible pumping units have been winning greater recognition for their economy and their good performance properties. As a result, they have found wide use in the manufacturing industries. One insulating system of submersible motors is the type in which insulating wires are wound for the stator, and wires coated with polyethylene are often used as the insulating wires in this case."
"Recent trends in the electrical industry have posed a problem in rating the performance properties of differing types of winding treatment materials. A technical program directed to the development of 100% reactive polyesters for insulating applications made this quite apparent. Thus, the study under discussion represents an attempt to establish a relatively fast but reliable screening technique to rate thermal stability, one of the prime requisites of insulating materials. More specifically, it is an approach to a method which would rate the comparative thermal stability of 100% reactive polyesters and relate this to the stability of solution varnishes with their considerable performance background in the area of electrical insulation."
"Inorganic insulations, typified by asbestos and mica, exhibit good resistance to corona-induced degradation, and are considered significantly superior to wholly organic insulations. These inorganic insulations, however, suffer from inherently poor mechanical properties, and must be supported by backings which generally by themselves contribute no electrical insulation value. The purpose of this paper is to describe a new material — an intimate blend of polyamide paper and mica — which provides good electrical, thermal, and mechanical properties, in addition to corona resistance. There is no binder or other ingredient in this structure. This new insulation, originally designed for use in high voltage rotating equipment, is expected to find applications in other areas such as high voltage transformers, V-rings and non-electrical applications."
"Certain areas of D.C. rotating machines have a performance record of decreasing insulation resistance with use, resulting in increasing creepage current. This condition has been most prevalent in the riser area of rotors. The riser area refers to the open connecting bars, risers, between commutator and rotor coils and adjacent support members and core plates. (See Figure 1.) Bare risers are a design characteristic of most larger D.C. machines over 22\" rotor diameter, which cannot be practically avoided."
"As the voltages and MVA ratings of transformers increase, the weight of even single-phase transformers become so large that shipment as a unit is difficult and field assembly may be necessary. Proposed 1000 MVA single phase, 765/345 kV autotransformers using conventional designs weigh between 200 and 300 tons. This problem will get much worse at 1000 and 1500 kV where the units may have single phase MVA ratings much greater than 1000 MVA. Because of the numerous insulating barriers and the extreme care needed in drying and oil filling, conventional oil-paper units may be difficult to assemble on site. In addition, dielectric losses in oil-paper insulation can be a problem at UHV levels.1"
"As the trend continues for transformers to be designed more compactly and with the rise in operating temperatures, more time is being spent on the development and evaluation of better insulating materials. Since the usage of enameled conductors varies for each particular transformer design, development and evaluation of enamels for conductors is an ever-continuing program."
"The insulation system known as Permalex I and used in distribution transformers has served the industry very well since its introduction in 1959. However, new requirements, applications, and the ever changing needs of the industry have created a threefold incentive to improve the system. The first is the desire of some distribution transformer users to increase the permissible overload which can result in higher coil hot spot temperatures. Second, the new and rapidly expanding market for underground application has meant in some instances higher operating temperatures because of less efficient cooling than for the conventional pole type. And last, the continual industry goal for reducing transformer size and cost as might be accomplished by an insulation system which can operate at higher temperatures without additional sacrifice of life or operating characteristics."
"The concept of accelerated functional testing of insulation materials and systems got great emphasis near the start of the second half of this century. This interest was spurred on when Dr. Dakin1 illustrated that insulation deterioration conformed to the Arrhenius chemical rate equation. The American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE), recognizing the importance of this concept, organized the working groups to develop test procedures for the thermal evaluation of insulation materials and systems. One such group was the Working Group on Life of Insulating Materials of the AIEE Transformer Committee. This Working Group was assigned the task of developing functional test methods for evaluating the permissible operating temperature of insulating structures in dry-type transformers. A subgroup of this Working Group published a proposed test procedure 2 for trial use in 1956. This test procedure primarily covers high voltage transformers of the core-form type. Most of the work with this procedure was reported prior to the time the test procedure was published."
"The problem of designing the coils for a large power transformer is one of great complexity. In addition to the obvious parameters of operating voltage and current, impedance and losses, the designer must consider many other requirements, including the ability to withstand various types of impulse voltage waves and the mechanical strength to resist stresses resulting from short-circuit conditions. A requirement which is always present is that of maximum reliability. At the same time it is essential that the size, weight and cost of the finished transformer be as small as possible."
"Improved functional properties and process simplification now can be attained through the use of solventless, resin-filled Mica Mat tapes used for high voltage ground insulation. Previously, all B-staged resin-filled tapes composed of either flake mica or mica paper have been manufactured with resin/solvent solutions because the solvents were necessary to reduce the viscosity of the resin for impregnation and to soften the tapes for application. However, when solvents are used, removal of them is difficult, costly, and complete removal is often virtually impossible."
"This paper deals with the evaluation of the life of insulation for the stator windings of large rotating machinery under high voltage application. Breakdown voltage test and voltage endurance test are widely used for evaluation of insulation life are regarded as the most reliable tests."
"The windings of large induction motors and also some synchronous machines with power ratings ranging from a few hundred to several thousand kilowatts, are often subjected to very high stresses in service, for instance under direct online starting or short circuit conditions or during sudden system changeover. Additionally there exists a trend to subject such machines to high contamination or humidity conditions without any extra protection."
"The early history of electrical insulation for large D.C. motors and generators is a story of the engineer's ability to combine the best materials available to him at the time for separating the conducting circuits from the magnetic circuits. Separation of the circuits is no longer adequate for the demanding performance of the rotating machines of today. Electrical circuits must be insulated to resist the extreme conditions of heat, moisture and foreign contaminates and perform satisfactorily with a minimum of maintenance over long periods of time. The trend toward smaller machine sizes with proportionately less space has increased the demand for a better overall insulation performance."
"The high-voltage stator coil for large rotating machinery is required to maintain stable properties over a long period with respect to heating and cooling cycle characteristics involved in repeated starting and stopping, heat aging characteristics due to temperature rise, and mechanical characteristics against vibration, short-circuited current, etc."
"Magnet wire requires voluminous testing, from the resin formulator, magnet wire manufacturer, magnet wire user to the ultimate consumer who buys equipment which contains the magnet wire. The dependability of equipment, then is closely tied to how a resin performs under various application procedures, types of surfaces on which it is applied and how the coated surface is going to be treated mechanically and chemically. Also to what physical abuses will it be exposed, what chemicals may it come in contact with in its entire lifetime and, in the case of magnet wire, the effect of an electro-magnetic field."
"Polyimide resins have proved themselves to be outstanding electrical insulation materials in a number of areas of application because of their superior thermal stability and toughness. This paper will discuss the application of polyimide film as an insulation for magnet wire, the properties of the wire and the compatibility of several high temperature varnishes with it."
"Recent statistics indicate that 90% of all technically trained people since the beginning of recorded history are alive today. From the activity in the magnet wire insulation field, it is evident that most of them are working in our area."
"The experimental determination of the thermal life expectancy and performance of a magnet wire enamel is a long and time-consuming process.1 Techniques for decreasing the evaluation time of 5,000 hours or more by a factor of about one hundred would be most welcome to those engaged in the synthesis and development of new enamels. Several attempts have been made to devise methods for achieving these ends,2–7 with varying degrees of success. These methods, as is the method described herein, were proposed as predictors of the ASTM D 2307 results and not in any sense as replacements for that test."
"In 1967 the author with I. McCausland and S. B. Girvan 1 offered an empirical relationship between the voltage gradient E over an insulator surface and the final steady surface resistivity ρSE attained under its influence. The relationship, found from a great number of tests on clean or uniformly contaminated rectangular or tubular glass specimens, was ρSE = ρSO (1 + A.E2)(i) where ρSO was the initial value of surface resistivity before the application of voltage and A was a constant for a given surface and humidity."
"The existence of dielectric heating in any kind of solid insulation has been known for many years, and the dangers of destructive temperatures have long been recognized. Designers have been careful to avoid destructive dielectric heating in their bushings or current transformers. As voltages have increased the problem has become more difficult, and more formal and elaborate methods have been devised to make certain of the adequacy of the insulation. It is one purpose of this paper to describe how this has been done."
"Less than 1% of some 300,000 miles of transmission lines are underground. To put all transmission lines underground would cost 5 to 10 billion dollars. Current cost and installation methods used in U.S.A. have been fully and expertly reported.1 The immediate need is for undergrounding new transmission lines in and around cities at a total cost equal to or less than overhead."
"It has been well established that breakdown voltage of highly asymmetrical gaps in air with the smaller electrode positive generally decreases with increasing wavefront duration up to a certain value and thereafter it increases. The most severe surge voltage causing flashover to occur at minimum value has been reported to be within a range of 50–300 μsec time to peak.1,2,3 The dependence of the breakdown voltage on wavefront duration has been attributed by some investigators to the effect of space charge resulting from the impulse corona earlier on the voltage wavefront."
"Welcome to the fourth NEMA Magnet Wire Section report to the industry. Those of you who have attended the past insulation conferences remember that we introduced the NEMA up-grading program in the first session in New York in 1965. We then presented the new standard, MW-1000, in Chicago in 1967. Last year in Los Angeles, a review of test procedures and equipment introduced in MW-1000 was presented. Again, we have chosen the Electrical Insulation Conference to bring to you the latest changes and additions to MW-1000. We know the conference represents the most complete gathering of people who are vitally interested in the testing, application, and standardization of magnet wire. The increased number of papers on magnet wire in other sessions of this conference is a good indication of this point."
"Overload conditions are common in such dynamic applications as portable tools, hermetic motors, start windings, traction motors, limited motion devices, and contactor coils. The rise of miniaturized and hotter running devices also demands greater attention to overload assurance. Even the pressure for closer design for reducing costs has made it imperative that components, especially magnet wires, be capable of greater overload resistance."
"The NEMA Standards Publication MW-1000-1967, subsequent additions and revisions, and current efforts in new test equipment and procedures, represent considerable work in the upgrading of magnet wire."
"Realizing the demands concerning the winding of coils and shapes which are required to comply with new and more compact designs, the requirements of the old NEMA specifications were reviewed and upgraded in the new NEMA Magnet Wire Standards publication. While the tests for flexibility are adequate for controlling the necessary properties required for round insulated magnet wire, it seemed appropriate that a further study should be initiated regarding the flexibility requirements of square and rectangular shapes. Therefore, the committee set up a program to investigate the problem and, as would be expected, it was confirmed that the failures occurred in the areas of greatest stress. However, it was also determined that these defects were not only on the outer edge of the bend where the film coating is required to meet added stress due to elongation, but also on the inner edge where the film coating is compressed. This presented a new aspect to the problem since there were no tests which could evaluate this occurrence."
"When NEMA MW-1000 was published in 1967, several test procedures were inserted in Part 3 to cover measurements of refrigerant resistance. Solvent extraction procedures were covered in paragraph 2.4.5, Refrigerant 22 softening in paragraph 2.4.8, and Refrigerant 22 blister resistance in paragraph 2.4.9. These test procedures were intended to cover the essential hermetic quality characteristics of magnet wires insulated with films composed primarily of polyvinyl formal resins."
"The industry trend to make motors and transformers smaller, more efficient and less costly has continued to place an increased load on the function of the insulation system. In order to keep pace with the needs of the ever more demanding electrical industry, the chemical industry has been developing insulating materials based on new complex chemistry that will withsand the higher temperatures and stresses imposed upon them during the manufacture and operation of the smaller electrical equipment. It has become increasingly evident that the interrelationships or compatibilities of the various insulation components play an important role in determining the ultimate temperature capability of the insulation system. As a result, the General Electric Company has had under way a wire enamel/varnish compatibility study with the newer insulated magnet wires since mid-1968."
"Present day oil-paper condenser bushings and potheads perform well at today's voltage levels and with today's cables and terminal equipment. However, it appears that with increased voltages and in certain special situations other types of terminations might be necessary or economically desirable. In particular, there appear to be three areas where gas terminations will be most useful: 1. Where the main insulating material of the device or cable is gas. 2. Where there are large dielectric losses in conventional insulating materials at UHV levels. 3. Where there are large high frequency (≈ 240 Hz) dielectric losses in conventional insulating materials during induced voltage tests. This may be more significant if the induced tests decrease in voltage and increase in time."
"There has been a marked development over the last 15 years in the application of synthetic resins in the construction of switch-gear. It is the aim of the designer to produce a reliable unit in the most economical manner and in this respect the choice of insulation is of paramount importance."
"The trend in switchgear insulation has been toward materials having higher operating temperatures, greater arc and track resistance, improved mechanical properties, and being readily producible in the sizes and shapes required. This trend has been dictated by expanding loads resulting in continuous operation at or near rated current, changes in load patterns resulting in the heaviest loads being carried on the hottest days and increased loading of individual units resulting in greater dependence on each unit. To achieve its performance objectives switchgear must operate at a high level of reliability."
"The progress and design of 5 and 15 kV metal clad switchgear can be directly connected with the introduction of new insulating materials. Without the broad spectrum of properties, both electrical and mechanical, presented to the Switchgear Industry throughout the 50's and 60's in both polyester glass and epoxy, we would have been hard pressed to meet the design requirements of the gear as it exists today. Polyester glass has been the chief contributor to these dynamic design changes not only because of its ability to meet the design requirements, both electrically and mechanically, but also because of the speed in which parts can be produced which reflects in the cost of the final part."
"HV apparatus, is subjected to deteriorating influences in service. An installation, perfectly adequate when new, can lose much of its initial integrity and reliability after years of exposure to corona (in bushings, instrument transformers, compartment panel feed-throughs), temperature cycling (all components, particularly severe for outdoor metalclads), and to contamination conducive to tracking (on surfaces of bus insulation and insulating panels, sometimes in bushings)."
"Electric Power requirements are growing at the rate of 7% per year or doubling approximately every ten years. This in turn produces a continuing need for upgrading and adding to present generation transmission and distribution capabilities. With all this increase in total power, the reliability requirements have also been similarly upgraded to ensure minimum interruption of supply under fault conditions. This is readily understandable in that, with more dependence on and greater need for electric power, any interruption of the supply becomes progressively more catastrophic. The net result is a demand for the availability of sufficient backup power and the means of isolating the fault conditions and getting this backup power onto the relevant grid system with the minimum delay. These functions of isolation and diversion, are performed by switchgear which thus assumes a critical role in ensuring the continuity of the supply of electric power."
"The work covered in this paper forms a part of a general development program of resin rich and impregnated insulation for application in electrical machines described in another paper read at this Conference.1"
"In order to upgrade facilities for evaluation of electrical insulating materials and systems, the facilities have to be made either more useful or more economical, or both."
"Water in the liquid or vapor state affects electrical insulation in two ways. The first is that the water will be distributed through a volume of solid insulation by absorption and the second is that the water forms a film on the surface of insulating materials. The encapsulated insulation system attempts to eliminate the effect of the second or film on the surface. An encapsulated system is defined for the purpose of this paper as one in which a thickness of material one or more orders of magnitude greater than a varnish film. The encapsulated motor attempts by means of a heavy coating completely covering the windings to shield them from the environment."
"Because of their outstanding performance, numerous new encapsulation and impregnating resins and new methods for applying these resins have been introduced in the past 10 years. These new materials and processes have rapidly replaced conventional varnishes and conventional varnish impregnation processes in many instances. Their swift success has focused attention on defining the exact functional role or service duty required of each component of an insulation system. Recent re-rates of designs, and the desire to operate at higher and higher temperatures, have thus brought the industry face-to-face with the need for quick, economical, and reliable criteria for classifying the service potential of new resins and processes."
"As to the evaluation of refrigerant hermetic motor insulation systems, much research has so far been made and reported, with all-comprehensive reports already published. Herein are presented the results of research in three phases."
"In view of the increased demand and use of electrical rotating machinery in severe environmental conditions with the insulation system exposed to the environments, a need exists for a suitable test procedure for sealed insulation. The IEEE Insulation Subcommittee of the Rotating Machinery Committee was given the assignment to develop and write a standard test procedure for electric machinery using sealed insulation. At present our membership consists of industrial motor end users, organizations such as the American Petroleum Institute, Underwriters Laboratories and the Navy, electrical insulation material suppliers and motor manufacturers. It was felt that we could obtain a test procedure that would be acceptable as an industry standard if we had support from a broad industrial and user membership in this working group."
"The thermal endurance of insulated magnet wire has been determined for many years by aging twisted pair test specimens in ovens at several temperatures. The procedure is described in ASTM D2307 which is a revision of work done in the AIEE (now IEEE) and published originally as AIEE #57. Two types of procedures are described."
"Rapid growth of aluminum in numerous applications has necessitated specialized development of processing techniques by unit manufacturers. Primarily the aluminum magnet wire user has been faced with the task of processing a conductor whose behavioral pattern in relationship to induced stress does not always parallel their past experience. New parameters have had to be set in order to wind, place and form an inherently soft material. Established concepts in winding practices have been altered or modified on a somewhat random basis. In order to provide the magnet wire user with significant data, relative to the ability of aluminum, to tolerate winding stresses, a program was developed to determine critical processing factors. The program undertaken considered specific hardnesses of aluminum conductors to determine whether or not one hardness range would be more suitable for winding than another hardness range."
"The inherent properties (chemical, physical, thermal and electrical) of magnet wire enamels depend to a great extent on the degree of cure these enamels undergo during tower application. In the past, relatively simple tests such as solvent resistance and flexibility existed to determine the parameters of application versus degree of curing. These tests, being of short duration, allowed little copper scrap to generate during start up of production equipment. Today a host of new complex polymers are being applied as magnet wire coatings. The markets they are serving are more complex and demanding and require a greater degree of sophistication in establishing an optimum degree of cure. Existing tests that define these qualities are quite often refined and time consuming. Due to these factors and higher material application costs in today's magnet wire industry, increasing emphasis is being placed on application knowledge. A definite need exists to control enamelling conditions and subsequently insure that satisfactory enamelled magnet wire is being produced at all times."
"One facet of materials science which has been the subject of intensive research over the last decade is the development of new thermally stable polymers. The main stimulus has come from the need to meet the demands of modern technological advances, in particular, the increasingly stringent environmental requirements of the aerospace program. Industry, government agencies and the military are designing and building machinery, equipment and components requiring light-weight, high-strength operation at high temperatures and in adverse environments. Advanced design concepts have increased the urgency of this need for more thermally stable materials and pushed the temperature requirements into even higher regions. This is now being felt in the electrical industry as design engineers attempt to increase the power to size ratio of electrical apparatus by the use of new high performance materials."
"During the course of power factor testing different types of high voltage stator coils over several years, the same question repeated itself persistently, \"Are these readings the true power factor values of the coils being tested?\""
"The need for a reliable, economical joining technique for electrical interconnections in telephone packaging has initiated several studies at BTL. Two such studies have involved the application of plated-through-hole flexible printed circuits to the Touchtone Trimline Handset and the 584 Panel, part of the 1A2 Keyset System. As these studies have progressed, the feasibility of applying plated-through-hole flexible circuitry to other Bell System equipment has become more obvious. For the convenience of those contemplating the future use of such an approach, this paper puts forth the experience thus far gained in the above two studies. Included are circuit design layout considerations, several mass bonding techniques for electrical interconnections and some basic data on flexible substrate materials."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Appendix 1"
"A study program was carried out to evaluate the performance of a high pressure gas switch under pulsed overvoltage conditions. A relationship between the rate of rise of the voltage pulse and the breakdown voltage was obtained. Using an effective time lag, τeff (time above 63% of breakdown voltage), the present measurements extend the range of nanosecond pulse breakdown data obtained by Felsenthal and Proud1 at low pressures to high pressures. DC measurements are also included for comparison."
"The motion of free conducting particles or metallic contaminants can initiate breakdown in gas-insulated systems. Several methods of inhibiting this breakdown are discussed. A calculation was made to determine the transit time and resulting current created by these particles as a function of particle size."
"This paper presents the results of an experimental investigation of the photoionization produced by a gaseous discharge. The primary objective is obtaining photoionization data that may be applied to breakdown calculations in air. Photoionization in commercial grade nitrogen and oxygen was also investigated."
"When an alternating stress is applied across an insulating medium containing a gas-filled void so that ionization occurs within the void, a partial discharge may ensue via multiplication of electrons in the void (Townsend avalanche). The “state” of the ionized gas is considered by the techniques of the classical kinetic theory. The Boltzmann transport equation which describes the time evolution of the density of charged particles is taken as the basis of the analysis. After considering the mechanisms of collision, drift, acceleration, absorption, and particle creation, an expression describing the partial discharge is obtained. Solutions of the expression, for the time intervals before and after a partial discharge, give the average kinetic energy and shape of the discharge pulse. The results are correlated with published experimental findings on the degradation of solid dielectric media: in particular accelerated frequency and hydrogen atmosphere degradation."
"An accurate prediction of radiation-induced conductance in dielectrics requires a knowledge of three parameters — the free carrier generation efficiency G, the carrier mobilities μ+ and μ−, and the free carrier lifetimes τ. When the material is placed in a radiation field the steady-state conductivity σ is given by the expression σ = (μ+ + μ−) e GIτ/100 (1) where e is the electronic charge, I is the energy absorbed from the radiation field in eV·cm−3·sec−1, and G is expressed in free carriers per 100 eV absorbed."
"The electrical polarization of polymer foils by methods based on discharge phenomena at elevated temperatures has been the subject of a number of recent papers.1–5 In the present report, we will discuss charge deposition on polymer foils by means of an electron beam.6 The results achieved with this method are compared with data obtained with the discharge methods."
"Photoconduction in polyethylene has been reported under ultraviolet illumination1,2 and also under white light illumination.3,4 We have investigated the photoelectric behavior in more detail by using monochromatic light. In the ultraviolet region we have correlated our results with the known optical absorption features of the material and we have found that surface currents flow as well as bulk currents. In the near infrared we find a charge flow which rises nearly linearly with the intensity, and that there is evidence for a broad distribution of traps."
"Dielectric constant and loss have been measured at 10, 3, 2, and 1 cm at 30°C for pure acetonitrile, pure propionitrile, mixtures of acetonitrile and benzonitrile and propionitrile and benzonitrile. Also measured are the benzene solutions of acetonitrile and propionitrile at the same wavelengths over the temperature region 24 to 70°C. The far-infrared spectra between 10–150 cm−1 of dilute benzene solutions of both the nitriles have also been investigated. The static dielectric constant has also been measured in all cases. A single relaxation time has been found for pure acetonitrile whereas the dielectric data of pure propionitrile indicate an unsymmetrical distribution of relaxation times. The dielectric data of the binary mixtures of acetonitrile and benzonitrile have been analyzed in terms of two partly superimposed Debye regions, whereas that of propionitrile and benzonitrile have been interpreted in terms of three partly overlapping Debye regions. The far-infrared absorption of propionitrile is similar to the one reported for acetonitrile in the literature. The contributions of the far-infrared absorptions to the microwave data were discussed. The thermodynamic quantities for each relaxation process have been estimated."
"The enthalpies of activation have been measured for dilute p-xylene solutions of some large molecules and were found to be comparable in size to those of smaller molecules, e.g., mono- and di-substituted benzene derivatives. In order to understand the value of these activation enthalpies it is necessary to devise a model for the activation process."
"This paper presents a fluctuation model of molecular relaxation processes. It specifically considers the “rigid rod” or a relaxation in paraffin-like solids,1 but the treatment is easily generalized to other relaxation processes."
"High permittivity liquids have hitherto been given little attention by scientists and engineers as far as their insulating capabilities are concerned, presumably because they did not seem amenable to a satisfactory standard of resistivity. As a matter of fact, most of recently published work on liquid insulants focuses on hydrocarbons, and, to a lesser extent, mildly polar compounds (aroclors)."
"The development of1,2 high pressure apparatus for the precise measurement of both the dielectric constant and the density over a range of temperatures has permitted a new examination of the low frequency dielectric behavior of liquids. In particular it has eliminated the need to change density by temperature alone so that purely density dependent changes in the dielectric constant can be separated from those due to temperature."
"Certain solids, especially certain conjugated macromolecular solids, display unusually intense polarization in electric fields. One is accustomed, for example, to observing in the case of pure organic polymers, dielectric constants (or electric permittivities) of about 2 to 7, and rarely up to 38. The new classes of conjugated polymers (known as eka-conjugated polymers) we refer to here, however, can exhibit permittivities of from 100 to 100, 000. It turns out that this greatly increased polarization response is due to a uniquely high freedom of the Mott excitons formed in such materials. Such a response is termed “hyper-electronic” polarization."
"The electrostatic field between high-voltage electrodes immersed in a dielectric liquid is often distorted by the presence of free charges in the liquid.1 Since these so-called “space charges” are believed to be, at least in part, ionic impurities present in the liquid before imposition of the field, sophisticated methods2,3 for achieving a high degree of purity have been developed. However, in spite of use of several of the more effective purification techniques, recent studies4,5 indicate continued distortion in the field distribution, particularly when high-intensity dc fields (>15 kV/cm) are applied."
"Recently Forster and Langer1 investigated the electrical conduction mechanism of aralkyl lithium solutions in aromatic hydrocarbons. They noted that diphenylmethyllithium when complexed with N, N, N', N'-tetramethylethylenediamine (TMEDA) produced highly conductive solutions as evidenced by measurements carried out at 1000 Hz. The temperature dependence of the conductivity of these solutions was noted to be nonlinear. They interpreted these results as indicating the presence of aggregates which became thermally unstable above some characteristic temperature and they suggested that the high conductance might be, in part at least, dipolar rather than completely ionic in nature."
"The flow of an electrical current in a dielectric liquid is often accompanied by macroscopic motion of the fluid.1 The character of this motion is determined by the dielectric, the direction and magnitude of the current flow, and by the geometry of the electrodes. Such effects have been studied by Steutzer,2 because of their possible usefulness as a means of pumping liquids. The convective motion of the liquid, which accompanies the flow of current, disturbs the steady state current and this may become an important complicating factor in the conduction properties of dielectric liquids. Ostrimov3 has considered many departures from ohmic behavior in dielectric liquids in light of convective effects."
"Ionization under high electric stresses may occur in voids located in liquid hydrocarbon impregnated paper or plastic tape composite dielectrics, with evolution of hydrocarbons. If these active (or nascent) gaseous breakdown products are not swiftly re-absorbed, the degradation site may grow and the process become self-accelerating to destruction. However, if the liquid itself is able chemically to react with the degradation products, the disruptive process may be delayed or even terminated."
"The dielectrophoretic attraction of matter into the regions of highest field strength when a non-uniform electric is present has been utilized in the separation of solid materials of differing dielectric constants and again in the extraction of solid particles from suspension in liquids.1–4 The present study was designed to explore the effects upon dc conduction through dielectric liquids when solid insulating particles have been dielectrophoretically deposited upon one electrode."
"Negative carrier mobility measurements have been made in simple hydrocarbon liquids by measuring directly from oscillograph traces of the collector electrode current the transit time for a step-function charge front to cross a uniformly stressed gap. The carriers were released into the liquid by field emission from a razor blades/grid diode1 so that the charge carrier density could be controlled by varying the negative excitation potential on the blades. When curves of measured mobility versus blade excitation potential were extrapolated to the condition of zero carrier injection, corresponding to the point where there should be no uni-polar current-induced liquid motion, a unique stress-independent negative mobility value was obtained for each liquid.2 These values are listed in Table 1."
"The conductivity of liquid n-hexane can be increased by photoionizing the liquid itself or by photostimulating an immersed cathode. In particular, the latter method has been used to measure the mobility of negative charge carriers in the liquid. Although photoelectrons were taken to be injected at the cathode surface, the mobility values have been found to be typical of ions1, 2 (10−3–10−4cm2V−1sec−1). Since photoionization has sometimes been mistaken for photoinjection, the investigation presented here was aimed at distinguishing between the two processes.3 It has been confirmed that the removal of dissolved air from the liquid aids photoionization, and that photo-injection requires the use of specially active cathodes."
"Since Coelho and Bono1 published their interesting results on conduction in n-hexane and n-heptane under highly non-uniform fields, no further work has been reported in connection with their findings. In the following, some new experimental results along this line are presented."
"The application of solid dielectrics for insulating purpose at high voltages has increased rapidly during the past 20 years. This happened in spite of the fact, that breakdown processes in practical arrangements with solid insulation are not at all understood. In many cases we are not even able to recognize the different stages of breakdown by measuring techniques."
"A numerical calculation of the current-voltage characteristic of an insulator leads to an instability under certain conditions.1 The model examined in the calculation was that of an insulator having both electron and hole carriers, collision ionization by electrons and electron injection from the cathode. The distortion of the electric field was computed for various dimensionless thicknesses X = xαο/μnH (1) and dimensionless current densities J = jμn/μp ε αο H (2) where x and j are the true thickness and current density, μn and μp the electron and hole mobilities and ε the permittivity of the dielectric. The ionization rate per electron per unit time was assumed to be α = αο exp(−H/F) (3) where αο and H are treated as material constants and F is the electric field strength. The results for field distortion are closely approximated by the curves shown in Figure 1 which shows dimensionless cathode field strength Ec = Fc/H versus dimensionless mean field strength Ē = F/H for various values of the parameter JX2. In order to calculate the cur rent-voltage characteristics from these curves, one needs in addition the emission properties of the cathode, and the fraction of the total current which is electronic at the cathode."
"Because of the low power factor available with non-polar polymers considerable interest has arisen in the possible use of polymers for oil-impregnated EHV cables.1–3 It is anticipated that the use of a synthetic paper for such an application will combine the best features of both polymer film and cellulose paper without the disadvantages of either. Developmental sheets of a synthetic paper made from P3O polymer [Poly-2,6-diphenyl-1, 4-phenylene ether)] have been examined for such application. This study describes the dielectric loss characteristics of the dry (i.e., unimpregnated) paper, and some of the factors involved in maintaining the lowest possible dielectric loss when P3O paper was impregnated with polybutene oils."
"The transient stress distribution in the insulation of high voltage dc cables subjected to polarity reversals has been determined by several authors; notably Occhini et al.1 In order to make proper use of this information, however, it is necessary to have a value of breakdown stress against which the transient stresses can be compared. In an attempt to establish this criterion, G. S. Eager and the present authors2 subjected paper/oil cables to breakdown tests under dc, impulse and polarity reversals. It was found that a polarization phenomenon existed which in effect caused an apparent increase in the internal stresses immediately after polarity reversals. Last year the present authors clearly indicated3 that the breakdown strength of paper/oil insulation under polarity reversals is different from the breakdown strength under impulse, ac and dc voltages due to the stratified rather than homogeneous nature of the insulation."
"Both low resistance and superconducting, high voltage cable, cooled with cryogenic liquids, offer the possibility for transmitting very large amount of power. The cryogenic liquids by themselves or as impregnants for paper or paper-like materials may be used as the dielectric system for such cryogenic cable. Some of the dielectric properties of nitrogen and hydrogen, as pure liquids and as impregnants for paper and du Pont's Tyvek polyethylene paper are described here. Properties of liquid helium will be described in a future paper."
"A cell has been designed and built for measurement of the dielectric constant and dissipation factor of thin films. The principle employed is the two-fluid, three-terminal scheme, 1,2, 3 adapted to thin film measurements. Measurements of dielectric constant, dissipation factor and thickness can be obtained on films ranging from about 250 μm (10 mil) down to 1 μm (0. 04 mil). Agreement is in general better than 1%, except for the dissipation factor of very low loss films where bridge sensitivity is the limiting factor."
"Silicon monoxide is a material which is commonly used as a dielectric medium in thin film capacitors and as an insulating layer in various vacuum evaporated devices, e.g., thin film transistors. It has been shown in a previous publication1 that the most important parameter in the preparation of this material is the ratio of the number of silicon monoxide molecules arriving at the substrate in unit time compared with the corresponding number of residual gas molecules. This ratio affects the degree of oxidation of the material during deposition and this in turn affects the physical properties, e.g., mechanical stress, porosity and susceptability to further oxidation. This is shown in Figure 1. The horizontal axis is calibrated in units of the arrival ratio N (i. e., the rate of arrival of SiO gas molecules/O2 in this case). The fraction of incident light transmitted gives a measure of the degree of film oxidation since at the wavelength used (3, 500 Å) the transmission of SiO is very much less than that of SiO2. It can be seen from the vacuum value curve that the film tends to SiO2 as N is decreased (either by decreasing the evaporation rate or by increasing the gas pressure). Typically, for a residual atmosphere of oxygen, N = 1 when the rate of deposition is 10 Å/ sec and the pressure is 8 × 10−6 torr. It can also be seen that exposing the film to the atmosphere causes an increase in the oxidation in every case. This increase is particularly strong for low N films which are very susceptible to the atmosphere, both the oxygen and the water vapor contents of the atmosphere having a strong effect. For this reason it was decided to perform all tests on the films in the original vacuum to ensure that the effects of oxidation were minimized."
"A method is developed whereby number densities of several of the atmospheric gas constituents can be determined as a function of altitude. The method employs two laser signals of different wavelengths, one occurring in an absorption region of the gas in consideration and one occurring in a spectral region where no absorption takes place. Returned scattered signals are collected and used along with absorption line strength and line width to determine the number density. The method described affords an indirect way of determining number densities of a specific constituent of the atmosphere by electromagnetic probing."
"The problem of UHF propagation is examined for the case of a spherically stratified troposphere having a profile of refractive modulus with a minimum near the surface of the earth. The methods of R. E. Langer are used to develop an asymptotic solution in terms of Whittaker functions, and eigenvalues are determined numerically with a fast computer. The results, which agree with those obtained earlier by other methods, are used to show how the distant field strength varies as the profile changes from a ‘normal’ case to a highly superrefractive case."
"Recently available D-region profiles are used to determine a model in which direct D-region reflection is assumed to be the dominant daylight mode in the 2- to 5-MHz region. This model is applied to the calculation of daylight absorption as a function of frequency and path length at oblique incidence. Good agreement with measurement is found, in contrast to early absorption calculation techniques, which show discrepancies of up to 30 decibels in this frequency range. Evidence suggesting direct D-region reflection higher in the HF band is presented."
"An error analysis of the one-bit autocorrelation method of spectral estimation is presented, and the variance on the autocorrelation estimate and spectral estimate is given. In the nonclipped (many-bit) case, the normal Nyquist sampling rate of 2B is sufficient. Higher sampling rates do not further improve the spectral estimate. In the clipped (one-bit) case, increasing the sampling rate does improve the estimate. The present work was initiated to examine this effect. The results verify the decrease in spectral variance with increased sampling rate. It is shown that a part of the signal-to-noise deterioration caused by the clipping may be removed by the higher sampling. An increased sampling rate from 2B to 4B, however, achieves most of the available improvement."
"The first three moments of the normalized spectrum of an FM wave equal the corresponding moments of the distribution of instantaneous frequency deviations. The fourth spectral moment contains an additional term given by the product of the mean-squared deviation times the second moment of the normalized modulating spectrum. These moments are used to bound the power in the spectral tails."
"A recently devised realistic model of an inhomogeneous isotropic plane-stratified plasma is examined analytically when electromagnetic waves of both magnetic and electric type are incident upon the layer from below. Properties of the reflected wave are investigated so as to express the characteristics of the polarization ellipse of the reflected wave in terms of the characteristics of the polarization ellipse of the incident wave."
"Ionospheric transmission and reflection coefficients for vertical incidence are determined by means of a simple and rapid numerical method based on thin-film optics. By this method the ionosphere is divided into a large number of thin layers, all partial reflections within a given layer are summed, and the process is then extended layer by layer to include the entire ionospheric region. The iterative procedure in its simplest form is started high in the ionosphere and extended downward to terminate at the ionospheric base, but by suitable modification it may be started low in the ionosphere and extended upward to yield in a single ‘run’ the contribution of each portion of the electron density profile to the over-all reflection and transmission coefficients. The method is free of the tendency to numerical swamping and is valid as long as the wave polarization remains constant, which is true in the D region in most of the VLF range. Comparison with full-wave analysis shows that the method breaks down at higher frequencies when weak coupling processes between the magnetoionic modes become relatively important owing to varying wave polarizations."
"The simple thin-film optical method is generalized to take into account intermode coupling and oblique incidence in a plane stratified magnetoionic medium. In analogy with the simple thin-film optical method, all partial reflections within a thin, elementary layer are given as a geometric series of matrix products, which are summed to yield the over-all transfer coefficient matrices of the elementary layer in terms of the characteristic waves of the medium (off-diagonal elements representing the over-all intermode coupling coefficients). The analysis is extended by an iterative procedure, layer by layer, starting high in the ionosphere and terminating at the ionospheric base to yield the over-all transmission and reflection coefficient matrices of the medium. The ‘reverse iteration,’ starting low and extending upward, yields transfer coefficient matrices of intermediate ionospheric slabs but at the price of a more complex iteration procedure. The method is free of the tendency to numerical swamping and in the case of normal incidence simplifies considerably. Applications to LF and hydromagnetic wave propagation in the lower ionosphere are given."
"The existence and character of modal fields on a two-dimensional structure comprising an infinite periodic series of slotted metal planes is considered. The problem is two-dimensional, since no variation in one transverse coordinate is assumed. Integral equations involving the unknown field in one iris and the propagation constant are formulated for both types of field polarization with the aid of appropriate Green's functions. The integral equations are reduced to infinite matrix equations by a novel procedure that involves the application of Galerkin's method in the Fourier transform domain. It is shown that radial Mathieu functions provide a rapidly convergent series representation for the iris field. For a given polarization, the first two modal propagation constants and iris field distributions are computed for even field symmetry. The real or attenuating part of the propagation constant is found to oscillate between a maximum and minimum value as a function of the distance beween adjacent planes when this distance is large compared with the iris width. The field distribution in the iris is also found to be very insensitive to plane spacing but becomes more peaked as the iris width is increased."
"This paper discusses the effect of a moving dielectric half-space on the radiation from a line source. Specifically, let us assume that an electric line source is embedded in one of two dielectric half-spaces separated by a plane of infinite extent, with either of the dielectric half-spaces moving uniformly. Then, the problem of how the radiation pattern of the line source, as viewed from the side of a dielectric half-space at rest, is affected by the motion of the other dielectric half-space is investigated. After considering an electric line source located both in a stationary and in a moving dielectric half-space, it is found that the radiation pattern is greatly modified by the motion of a dielectric medium, especially in the presence of the other dielectric medium at rest instead of in the presence of a vacuum."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"This paper summarizes current knowledge about various types of spectra in the lowest few hundred meters of the atmosphere, with emphasis on measurements and interpretations since 1965."
"This paper summarizes a series of measurements, with a balloon-borne, spaced-cavity refractometer, of the fine structure layers of large variance in refractivity. The measured height variation of the intensity of small-scale fluctuations often shows clear evidence of some degree of stratification, even in nonanticyclonic conditions, with local parcels within which the value of 〈(ΔN)2〉/l may reach 10−11 meter−1, where l is the scale size in the parcel. The results of forward-scatter and beam-swinging experiments must therefore be interpreted with due regard for this inhomogeneity. Furthermore, the spectral characteristics of refractivity in the region of scale layers vary widely in space and time. The value of Richardson's number across the layer is generally appreciably greater than 1, the exponent in the one-dimensional spectrum is usually —2 to —2.5, and the spectra often tend to converge at wave numbers of 10–100 meters−1."
"This review paper summarizes present knowledge about turbulence in the free atmosphere. Data from various sources allow the construction of an average spectrum of atmospheric motions which covers almost the entire range of periods from 1 second to 1 year. It is shown that the micrometeorological maximum, which probably exists in cases of moderate and severe CAT (clear air turbulence), is not separated from synoptic scale motions by a deep mesoscale gap. Theoretical considerations and observations in the laboratory, the ocean, and the free atmosphere suggest that CAT is a manifestation of the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability. This implies that for better understanding of CAT, for forecasting, and for planning of airborne measurements, isentropic analysis of the meteorological situation is advisable. Sophisticated aircraft instrumentation is now beginning to yield data sufficiently accurate and detailed to make feasible the use of the powerful tool of energy budget analysis for CAT studies. Recent experiments in the atmosphere have not clarified the problem of the existence of the buoyant subrange and the corresponding behavior of the spectrum. Development of a highresolution vertical sounding technique permits the measurement of the spectra of the horizontal winds in the vertical direction, which may make possible the prediction of microturbulence features from vertical wind profile analysis. Temperature spectra in the free atmosphere are discussed, and the values of the temperature dissipation rate and of the structure function coefficient are calculated for CAT of several different intensities."
"This paper describes some preliminary experiments made at Cardington during 1968 to measure the fluctuations of wind inclination in the frequency range 0.1–3 Hz. The measurements were made at heights up to about 1 km by using a tethered balloon. The results illustrate the intermittency of atmospheric turbulence and show the way in which the implied average rate of dissipation of turbulent kinetic energy varies with height under different daytime stability conditions including overhead inversions. The results are also broadly consistent with a buoyancy production that is roughly constant with height in the convective layer (and is the dominant contribution at the greater heights) and a mechanical production that falls off roughly as 1/z."
"An exponential relationship between the vertical wind shear and the layer thickness over which this shear is measured has been derived. From an analysis of the Richardson number it appears that shallow layers reaching maximum shearing conditions under the established power law should be turbulent, irrespective of the prevailing thermal stability conditions."
"The energy budget of a patch or layer of severe CAT encountered on one of the HICAT flights is analyzed. The shear feeding of energy, the buoyant extraction of energy, and the frictional dissipation are considered, and it is found that the budget balances within about 8% of the total rate of shear production. The cospectra that reveal the wavenumber decomposition of the rates of energy exchange are compared with the spectra for each component. The marked lapses from the spectral behavior expected in isotropic turbulence are in agreement with the calculated spectral fluxes of energy."
"Temperature spectra at South Dartmouth, Massachusetts, U. S. A., between 16- and 91-meter elevation are shown to be consistent with Monin-Obukhov scaling. The high-frequency portions of the spectra vary as k−5/3 (where k is the wave number), in accordance with the Kolmogorov hypothesis. The universal constant in this law, determined by two partially independent methods, results in about 0.7 for the one-dimensional temperature spectrum, if k is measured in radians per unit length. Although not very accurate in itself, this result is in good agreement with laboratory estimates."
"Recent measurements of momentum and heat flux between 5.66 and 22.6 meters on a tower over a flat uniform site indicate that both fluxes are constant with height to within ±20%. Some important aspects of instrument performance relevant to flux measurement, e.g., sonic anemometer array configuration, alignment and leveling of the axes, and errors in sonic thermometry, are discussed. The large variations observed in the vertical momentum flux gradient during unstable conditions appear to be the result of intermittent bursts in the momentum transport. Some characteristics of these bursts are described. Long averaging periods, of the order of an hour, are needed for meaningful estimates of flux gradients under such conditions."
"Fluctuations of atmospheric humidity measured with a barium fluoride element and radio refractive index measured by a microwave refractometer are compared for a separation of 6 inches. Spectral coherence indicates good agreement up to frequencies of 2 to 4 Hz, which is also the frequency limit for good agreement between 2 refractometer cavities 12 inches apart."
"Continuous measurements of temperature, water vapor, and radio refractivity were taken over several days at a height of 11 meters above ground over the high plains of Colorado. A spectral analysis indicates that temperature fluctuations contribute little to radio refractivity fluctuations, which are primarily caused by variations in water vapor density over a wide range of spectral frequencies."
"Some experimental spectra of the v', w', and f fluctuations in a stably stratified boundary layer are discussed that were obtained in the constant stress region of a laboratory boundary layer. It is shown that no buoyant subranges exist and that temperature-fluctuation and velocity-fluctuation spectra are roughly described at high frequencies by the universal laws of Kolmogoroff and Corrsin for the viscous subrange. Better agreement for the velocity spectra is found, however, by extending formally the k−1 law of Tsehen and Gisina to higher wave numbers."
"The turbulent transfer of water vapor in the lowest atmospheric layers is the principal mechanism of energy exchange between air and sea and plays an important part in problems of electromagnetic-wave propagation. Since experimental study of this transfer requires the measurement of humidity fluctuations, their characteristics have to be estimated to delineate suitable measuring devices. This estimate is obtained from the following information: (a) Equations governing the mean distributions, turbulent fluxes, and levels of fluctuations of humidity. These expressions bring out the analogy existing between humidity and temperature and enable the identification of various mechanisms of generation, transfer, and dissipation inside the surface layer of a stratified atmosphere. (b) Experimental results for the mean profile, the transfer rate, and the turbulence level of water vapor in typical cases, (c) Predictions of the spectral distribution and of time and space scales of the turbulence of humidity. Once the estimate is made, it is then possible to define specifications for devices measuring humidity fluctuations for use in either the field or the laboratory. Various methods of measurement can be considered; i.e., psychrometry, measurement of dew-point, use of the hot wire, absorption of Lyman-a or infrared radiation, measurement of refractive index, or use of the ionic probe. Although small time-constant psychrometers offer some interest, electromagnetic techniques appear most promising."
"The data on the variation of the structure characteristics of the temperature field CT2 in the free atmosphere have been obtained at heights from 50 to 4000 meters. The aircraft instrument measurements were made in summer during the day and night and under different synoptic conditions above the steppe and the sea. It has been shown that under the condition of a developed convection, CT2 decreases with the height as Z−4/3. For other conditions an averaged dependence of CT2 on height was obtained. For the case of a stable stratification, the dependence of CT2 on the gradient of the potential temperature is shown. Cumulus cloudiness exerts a strong influence on the height variation of CT2. Above the sea CT2 changes little either day or night At night above the steppe, however, CT2 increases with height."
"This study summarizes advances in radar backscattering from refractive index irregularities in the clear air and its relationship to atmospheric structure and turbulence. This recent discipline of radar meteorology originated from radar angel studies and the efforts to explain these mysterious echoes. The significance of specular atmospheric radar reflections now appears limited, and consequently this study is devoted entirely to radar backscattering from turbulent fluctuations in the clear-air refractive index. Two regimes of atmospheric turbulence are distinguished: (1) in the convective domain, backscattering from water vapor fluctuations outlines regular, three-dimensional clear-air structures associated with buoyant, moist air parcels; (2) in the stable regime, horizontally stratified clear-air echoes originate from water vapor and/or temperature perturbations due to wind-shear-generated turbulent mixing in zones of enhanced static stability. Theoretical relationships are given between the radar reflectivity and the refractive index microstructure for the general case, for the isotropic case, and for the inertial subrange. The connection between the microstructure and the atmospheric mean fields is illustrated for a simplified situation in the stable regime; this relationship provides insight to the radar backscattering from clear-air turbulence (CAT). It is concluded that strong CAT will be associated with zones of increased refractive index variability and enhanced radar returns. A brief résumé of experimental work illustrates the application of radar methods in clear-air research and summarizes characteristic features of clear-air structures."
"This review is concerned with the relative potentials of various experimental radio techniques from the point of view of determining the atmospheric fine-scale structure. After having derived a unified set of simple approximate expressions for the ‘measured quantity’ in terms of parameters describing the refractive-index time-space structure, some of the more important sources of error are discussed. Finally, on the basis of numerous experimental results, the form of the refractive-index spectrum is deduced by using the previously derived theoretical expressions."
"The present state of theory and experiment are reviewed. Theory is adequate for line-of-sight propagation in weakly inhomogeneous media; theory treats a wide variety of situations with potential for the probing of small-scale atmospheric phenomena, using acoustic, microwave, and optical transmission. Thus far experiments have served mainly as tests of theory; useful information about the atmosphere will follow upon more intensive concern with the interpretive aspects of the problem."
"Phase and amplitude of simulated troposcatter signals have been computed as functions of time, using thin layers of randomly spaced point scatterers moving horizontally and uniformly, normal to the path. The layer heights and cross-wind speeds were chosen to agree with the atmospheric conditions known to exist in two radio experiments. Comparisons of the simulated and actual radio signals show good agreements in amplitude fading rate and average Doppler shift versus antenna pointing angle in one case when the scattering angular dependence used in the simulation matched the classical −11/3 power-law isotropic refractivity spectrum. In the other case, where slower fading was observed, an anisotropic model of the refractivity spectrum produced excellent agreement between the simulated and radio data. Knowledge of the cross-wind speed allowed the degree of anisotropy for the model to be evaluated."
"By the aid of beam-swinging experiments, information regarding the spatial homogeneity of the refractive-index field in the height interval from 1.0 to 8.0 km was obtained. The troposphere was found to be highly homogeneous in the horizontal direction, whereas in the vertical direction the rate at which the spectral density <£ decreased with height z was considerable (mean value of 7db/km). Correlating the received power with all the pertinent meteorological parameters that can be deduced from radiosonde measurements, we found a correlation coefficient of 0.91 with the refractive index N. By correlating dΦ/dz with the spatial mean values of the meteorological parameters, a significant relationship was found with a composite expression that includes the refractive index, the static stability, and the wind shear."
"The paper discusses the applicability of microwave pulse Doppler radar techniques to the observation of small-scale turbulent air motion. Emphasis is placed on a quantitative analysis method that utilizes the variance of the Doppler radar observed spectrum of velocity of manmade radar targets used as tracers for the turbulent air motion."
"Radar backscattering from the turbulent clear atmosphere is determined by the small-scale variability in the radio refractive index and is therefore related to the mean gradient of potential refractive index and to the degree of turbulence. Consequently, the mean gradient of potential refractve index is considered in works concerned with radar detection of CAT (clear air turbulence). This note clarifies the role of potential quantities and their vertical gradients in quantitative discussions of the generation of small-scale atmospheric inhomogeneities by turbulent mixing. If potential quantities are referred to a standard pressure of 1000 mb, as is common, the mean vertical gradient of potential refractive index cannot be used directly to evaluate the small-scale refractive-index variability resulting from adiabatic mixing. It is convenient to define a generalized potential refractive index and a generalized potential temperature as potential quantities referred to the mean pressure at the level under consideration. The refractive-index inhomogeneities produced by turbulent mixing are directly related to the mean vertical gradient of generalized potential refractive index (generalized potential temperature if specific humidity is negligible). The terminology already adopted in several works on radar detection of CAT is preserved if it is emphasized that the potential quantities employed are generalized. Errors of several decibels may result if the ordinary potential quantities referred to 1000 mb are used mistakenly to determine the smale-scale refractive-index variability."
"Radar backscattering from the turbulent clear atmosphere is caused by irregular small- scale fluctuations in the radio refractive index produced by turbulent mixing. This note considers the theoretical relationships between the refractive-index microstructure and the backscattering at radar wavelengths from meters to centimeters. Spectral relationships are clarified and the basic difference between radar sampling and refractometer sampling of refractivity spectra is explained. Theoretical expressions are given for the relationship between the radar reflectivity and spectral representations of the refractive-index variability for the general case, for the isotropic case, and for the inertial subrange."
"A joint experiment using Doppler radar technique and instrumented aircraft has produced comparative measurements of wind-speed fluctuations under convective conditions in the lowest 500 meters. Preliminary results show a good agreement between radar and aircraft spectra of a longitudinal wind-speed component at scales from 50 meters to 1 km. There is an indication that, at scales larger than 1 km, Taylor's hypothesis is not valid."
"A radar sounder for the study of the refractive index structure in the troposphere is described. The specially built, high-sensitivity FM-CW radar has a maximum range resolution of one meter. Design considerations and performance characteristics are given, and recordings obtained with the radar sounder are presented and discussed. The predominant layers are very well correlated with the major inversions at which we find either sharp vertical gradients of refractive index or changes in the gradient. The base of the lowest inversion is almost always so marked. A second echo layer frequently appears some tens of meters above this base level. Although the echo strata may sometimes be 30 to 40 meters in depth, they are often only a meter or less thick. Their reflectivities may be 10 to 100 times larger than those previously reported with radars of coarser resolution. The layers also commonly appear in the form of breaking Kelvin-Helmholtz waves with periods of 2 to 4 minutes and peak-to-peak amplitudes as small as 10 to 15 meters."
"To distinguish rigorously between wave motion and turbulence in a stratified fluid seems impossible, although useful approximations seem feasible. The task is made more difficult by the fact that properties of turbulence are very little like those described in most theories of turbulence, even when the Reynolds number is quite high."
"Following a review of recent advances in the general theory of wave motions, we suggest that Boltzmann's equation may be used to describe the propagation and interaction of packets of internal gravity waves in a stably stratified shear flow. The relationship of this picture of weakly interacting random waves to patches of clear air turbulence is examined."
"Dye-tracer experiments in the seasonal oceanic theormocline have revealed a microstructure with a significant fluctuation of shear and density gradient within a vertical distance of 1 cm. It has proved possible to relate the occurrence of localized spots of turbulence with this structure and with internal waves traveling along especially (statically) stable ‘sheets’ within the thermocline. The thermocline microstructure has a predominant vertical scale of a few decimeters, the sheet waves have wavelengths in the range 5–10 meters, and the turbulence occurs at a Reynolds number in the range 200–1000. Similar features are found on a very much larger scale in the atmosphere, although the methods of investigation (mainly instrumented aircraft) used here are incapable of yielding the detailed information obtained by divers working in the thermocline. It seems useful, therefore, to treat the observations of microstructure, waves, and turbulence in the thermocline as a possible model for the corresponding features in the atmosphere. This leads to some predictions concerning the atmosphere microstructure and also to suggestions for the planning of experimental investigations. The available evidence from the atmosphere appears to support the predictions that (1) the critical gradient Richardson number for reverse transition occurs at about unity regardless of the Reynolds number of the turbulence, and (2) that most of the atmosphere (with the exception of clouds and the boundary layer) is in laminar flow."
"Billows are the most common form of dynamic instability in the free air where the air is stably stratified. They occur mainly in layers where the static stability is much larger than average and therefore where there are already large gradients of temperature and humidity. They are produced predominantly by the tilting of these very stable layers in the wavy airflow produced by hills. The billows form a cat's-eye pattern of motion that becomes statically unstable in the closed circulations. Consequently, the gradients inside are destroyed by the buoyancy-induced mixing, and large gradients are produced at the boundary of the circulations. The original stable layer is thus replaced by two stable layers at a distance apart of the order of 5 times the depth of the original layer. During the overturning, large gradients of temperature are produced at the wavy boundary, which is itself corrugated by the internal mixing motions."
"A statically stable, stratified free shear layer was formed within the test section of a wind tunnel by merging two uniform streams of air of different temperature at the entrance to the contraction section. The resulting diffusion-thickened interface was characterized by nearly self-similar temperature (odd), velocity (odd), and Richardson number J (even) profiles that were adjustable over the ranges 0.07 ≤ J ≥ 0.76 and 50 ≤ Re ≥ 150, where Re is the Reynolds number. Small periodic disturbances were imposed on the interface by oscillating a taut, 0.004-inch-diameter steel wire within the interface in the contraction section, and subsequent development was deduced from measurements of the fluctuating temperature downstream. Results indicate complete infinitesimal stability for J > ¼∗ and instability over a range of nondimensional wave numbers of the order of unity for smaller values of J. Growth rates are presented that agree reasonably well with theoretical predictions based on the assumption of inviscid parallel flow."
"A unified spectral description of internal waves and turbulence in a stably stratified atmosphere or ocean is proposed. We envisage that the fluctuating motions in a free atmosphere with scales smaller than the synoptic scale consist of internal waves and turbulence. At low wavenumbers, internal waves predominate; this range of wavenumbers may be called the internal wave subrange. The internal waves can be identified from the characteristics of velocity-scalar cospectra and quadrature spectra, as shown recently by Pao [1969t] in a laboratory experiment. When the internal waves are sufficiently strong and distinct, the different harmonics of internal waves may appear in the autospectra of velocity and temperature where the peaks and valleys are clearly identifiable. This, we believe, explains the presence of peaks and valleys in some velocity autospectra of clear air turbulence measured in strongly stratified regions of the atmosphere. At intermediate wavenumbers (buoyant subrange) the buoyancy effect is still strong but the turbulent scrambling process also becomes important; the higher-order harmonics of internal waves are no longer distinct and cannot be detected in the autospectra; the velocity autospectra are steeper than k−5/3. At high wavenumbers (inertial and viscous subranges) turbulence predominates. The characteristics of fluctuating motion in this range of wavenumbers can be described well with Kolmogorov's concept of local isotropy and are not affected by the stratification. The proposed spectral behavior for the free atmosphere is described in detail and supported with existing measurements in stably stratified regions of the atmosphere and ocean in part 1. It will be further supported by our laboratory experiments on the breaking of internal waves in a two-fluid system [Hall and Pao, 1969] in part 2."
"The breaking of internal waves on a sloping surface in a two-fluid system is studied experimentally in a wave tank. The characteristics of breaking internal waves are examined through their frequency spectra for cases of different frequency, amplitude, and wavelength. Waveheight measurements are made with capacitance probes in conjunction with a recently developed capacitance bridge and are processed by computer utilizing the Cooley-Tukey fast Fourier transform algorithm. By using a direct, on-line computer system spectra can be computed with a high degree of accuracy and a very narrow bandwidth. Spectra measured in the breaking region of the tank reveal a series of sharp peaks in the low frequency range representing the different harmonics of the internal waves. These higher modes, which possess little or no energy in the incident wave, gain energy at the expense of the lowest mode as the wave train propagates over the sloping surface. The result is a transfer of energy to higher frequencies through growth of the harmonics, each mode gaining energy at the expense of lower modes and transferring it to higher modes. At higher frequencies the spectra no longer possess these distinct harmonics. The high frequency end of the spectrum in the breaking region has a slope of approximately —3 for all cases considered."
"Some experiments are described in which a shear flow is developed in a stratified brine solution contained in a long, closed tube of rectangular cross section. The fluid motion is produced by tilting the tube from an initial horizontal position, and the flow thus generated is found to be uniformly accelerating and easily expressed in terms of the initial density profile in the tube until disrupted by instability. (The details of the method are given in an earlier paper.) The particular case of a diffuse interface between two homogeneous layers of different densities that move with equal and opposite speeds is discussed in some detail, and the transition to turbulence is described. The transition is characterized by the formation of waves that develop into rolls of a very beautiful form. Measurements at the onset of the wave motion are compared with theoretical predictions."
"For a stationary process in the wave-number range investigated (the buoyancy subrange of stably stratified flow) under the assumption of local homogeneity of the flow, two governing spectral equations derived from equations of motion and energy are solved by means of a generalized eddy-viscosity approximation. Asymptotic solutions are obtained in the buoyancy subrange, where the local production and local dissipation of turbulence energy are negligible when compared with the inertial transfer and vertical heat-flux terms when the flow conditions satisfy the frequency criterion $[(g/T_{0})d{\\overline{T}}/dz]^{1/2}\\ll [N/_\\epsilon(g/T_{0})^2]^{1/2}$. The power law for the velocity and temperature spectra is not universal but varies with the flow conditions in the way Φ(k) ∼ kn and ΦTT(k) ∼ km, where −11/5 ≥ n ≥ −3 and −1 ≥ m ≥ −7/5."
"The question whether or not nonlinear explosive instabilities exist in the atmosphere is raised."
"The inertial subrange in the energy spectrum appears to be the most consistent feature of atmospheric turbulence at all altitudes. The implications of the fact that amplitudes are related to the Vs power of the wavelength are imposed upon the probabilistic structure of the turbulence by B. Mandelbrot's concept of self-similarity. A process with random variable x is self-similar if the variable Xh obtained by magnification of the wavelength by h can be represented as a suitable magnification of the amplitude of x so that both x and xh have the same probabilistic structure. If this is the case, and the spectra have power-law behavior S(k) ∼ k−p, then the distribution functions for x and xh, obey P(x) = Ph(xh) Ph[h(1–2)/2x]. The implications for the distribution of increments yr = x(t) — x(t + T) are examined. Observational data from the 150-meter tower at Cape Kennedy and from airborne measurements in the troposphere and stratosphere show that self-similarity gives a remarkably accurate prediction of the behavior of the empirical data in all three cases. The distribution of the increments also reveals an intermittent structure for the turbulence. It is concluded that an attempt to construct a theoretical explanation for the apparently self-similar behavior of atmospheric turbulence may be revealing."
"In this paper the spectral distribution of turbulent energy is considered. The turbulence is assumed to be homogeneous and axisymmetric with a vertically directed axis of symmetry. The spectral representation of the velocity correlation equation was the starting point for determining the spectra of turbulent energy. Transfer of energy in axisymmetric turbulence was approximated by adopting a Heisenberg-type hypothesis. The general solution obtained presents as special cases the —5/3 law and the —11/5 law for the spectrum of total energy. It is shown that the spectrum of the vertical energy behaves like k−5/3 for large wave numbers and like k−3/5 for buoyancy subrange. The spectrum of temperature fluctuations is also investigated."
"The intermittency associated with fine-scale structure and motion of the atmosphere was a central and significant theme of the papers and discussions of the meeting. The mathematical and physical problems raised by the intermittency of atmospheric phenomena appear to be difficult and complex."
"The primary problem we discussed is how to distinguish by means of spectral analysis the different types of dynamics believed to be dominant on different scales in the atmosphere; in particular, synoptic scales (dominated by rotation), mesoscale (waves or buoyancy), and microscale (‘turbulence’). The group rapidly concluded that they did not know how to do this, even in principle, and this report describes their observations on the subject."
"Fossil turbulence is the name given to the three-dimensional microstructure of temperature, humidity, or some other scalar property that is advected by the mean flow. (The first use of the expression seems to be attributable to Woods, but the physical phenomenon that it represents has been recognized for some time by fluid dynamicists.) The fossil turbulence was produced by a turbulent field that has since decayed; its scalar fluctuations occur at an intensity and on a scale that cannot be accounted for by the existing velocity field."
"Kolmogorov's theory postulates that the very small scales of motion in a turbulent fluid are isotropic. At the large end of these scales (inertial subrange) the spectral energy would be expected to fall off as the — 5/3 power of wave number. Although it has been generally recognized that the — 5/3 slope in the one-dimensional spectrum extends to wave numbers well below the limits predicted for the three-dimensional spectrum and cannot therefore be considered a sufficient condition for isotropy, it was assumed that local isotropy could be found if the measurements went far enough into the — 5/3 region. Evidence presented at this meeting suggests that in the first few meters above the ground isotropy may never be reached even at scales small enough to be dominated by viscous dissipation. Above a height of approximately 20 meters, isotropy may be observed at wavelengths smaller than 1/10 the height above ground (i.e. a nondimensional frequency f > 10). In the free atmosphere, radio propagation experiments indicate that isotropy exists only at wavelengths of the order of 10 meters or less."
"This group was asked to consider the characteristic structure of the boundary between laminar and turbulent flows (the L-T boundary) and to answer the following specific questions. If we consider the boundaries at the top and bottom of a patch of intense turbulence in a stratified medium a. Can we predictt he two-dimensional spectrum of the height deviations of the boundary?"
"Observations on fluid flows indicate quite clearly that it may be feasible to distinguish between various classes of fluid motions with reasonably well-defined properties."
"As there are many techniques available for measuring these fluxes in the boundary layer, the group considered that it would be useful to start by discussing seven principal ones in turn."
"The propagation of electromagnetic or acoustic waves through a turbulent, locally isotropic medium is prescribed, provided we know the coefficient of k−6/3 in the Kolmogorov law. This coefficient is the product of b, a universal constant; N, the dissipation rate of the fluctuations of refractive index; and є−1/3, where e is the rate of dissipation of turbulent velocity fluctuation into heat. We might consider two kinds of problems: How can electromagnetic or acoustic propagation information be used to get information about various meteorological properties? How can meteorological data be used to estimate the propagation of waves?"
"The cylindrical shell between the earth and a homogeneous or exponentially varying ionosphere model is excited by vertically or horizontally polarized line sources; these fields are related to dipole fields in a spherical shell. Because of ionospheric anisotropy, the vertically polarized source also excites TM field components with wave numbers corresponding to TE modes, and a horizontally polarized source excites TE fields corresponding to TM modes, particularly for the higher frequencies at nighttime and for propagation westward. Among the field components tangential to the ground surface, TM fields tend to dominate with the exception of TE modes at daytime and for lower frequencies at night. TM modes dominate in the nighttime mode sum (or interference pattern) for propagation eastward, but the two lower TE modes contribute significantly if propagation is westward. Simplified computational models that neglect the radial component of the earth's static magnetic field are justified under daytime conditions. At nighttime such calculations provide extreme changes in the attenuation rates and phase velocity variations, which are opposite to the ones observed with a dipping static magnetic field. The direction dependence of the phase velocity is eliminated by decreasing the strength of the static magnetic field."
"In March and April 1965 the University of Illinois and the GCA Corporation launched five Nike-Apache rockets from the aircraft carrier U.S.N.S. Croatan as a part of the NASA Mobile Launch Expedition. As the Croatan followed the meridian at 78° west longitude along the west coast of South America, two rockets were launched at 13° south latitude (at the geomagnetic equator), one rocket at 30°S, one at 44°S, and one at 58°S. Launch times were chosen to correspond to a solar zenith angle of 60° at each of the four different latitudes. Each of the payloads carried a radio propagation experiment and a Langmuir probe for the measurement of electron concentration and collision frequency in the lower ionosphere. Between 70 and 90 km, the electron concentration profiles at 13° and 58°S are nearly coincident, and the profiles at 30° and at 44°S are also nearly coincident. This pattern suggests a geomagnetic anomaly in the D region of the ionosphere comparable with the geomagnetic anomaly in the F region. From 90 to 150 km the profiles show no systematic differences."
"The use of a cubic approximation to the electron density determined by means of multifrequency absorption measurements does not always yield satisfactory results. An alternate method of determining the electron density is presented. A family of proton spectra is used, and the electron density profile resulting from each spectrum is determined. It is found that each profile produces absorption which varies as f−n with the exponent n characteristic of the particular profile. These profiles are then varied in magnitude to produce the measured absorption. The result is an electron density profile that gives a more realistic representation of the D region during a proton event than does a cubic approximation."
"An aircraft carrying an ionospheric sounder traversed the boundaries of extended cloud cover near Los Angeles five times on July 18, 1967. Amplitudes of ionospheric E-layer echoes at 3 MHz were received and recorded on magnetic tape, and median values were determined in 1-minute intervals. Although these values scattered over ±3 decibels, the average median was lower, by 2.1 decibels, when the aircraft was over cloud cover than when the aircraft was over a cloud-free area. The results suggest that an enhancement of the flux of visible light due to the reflecting cloud cover (estimated albedo 40%) changed the D-layer chemistry in such a way that the electron density increased, resulting in a (6 ± 3)% increase of two-way non-deviative absorption."
"A dispersion relation is obtained for gravity waves propagating in an atmosphere with a horizontal background wind that is variable with altitude. Also, a full-wave solution valid in a region containing a critical level is obtained for the case of a background wind varying linearly with altitude."
"The properties of radiation from circular arc antennas are discussed by using an asymptotic expansion method. Approximate pattern calculations of these antennas have usually been made by employing related techniques, such as the method of stationary phase. However, the stationary phase method has certain limitations, and it is not as accurate as the method presented here. The asymptotic expansion gives relatively accurate results when the radius of the arc source is large with respect to the wavelength. This requirement is usually satisfied if the antenna is to have a high directivity. The asymptotic expansion converges rapidly for observation angles away from the broadside direction, so that it is easy to determine the side-lobe energy distribution. The results given here can easily be applied to circular arc arrays with either uniform or nonuniform spacings of the elements along the arc by applying the Poisson sum formula. This is true because the resulting integrals governing the radiation fields from a circular arc array are similar to the ones discussed here."
"The reflection coefficient of a symmetric parallel-plate waveguide operating in the TEM mode and illuminating a lossless dielectric layer is analyzed by wedge diffraction and geometrical optics techniques. The interactions between the waveguide and the dielectric layer are treated in terms of iterative bounce waves. The reflection from the dielectric layer and the scattering from the waveguide for cylindrical wave incidence are both represented by resultant component cylindrical waves. Thus each interacting bounce wave between the guide and the dielectric layer becomes the superposition of a finite number of cylindrical wave components. The reflection coefficient of the guide is then obtained by adding the various bounce wave contributions to the guide's free-space reflection coefficient. For the two geometries considered, the thin-walled guide and the ground-plane guide, calculated results are in excellent agreement with those measured."
"A quasi-static derivation is outlined for the problem of a shell-enclosed homogeneous solid sphere immersed in a slowly varying electromagnetic field. The secondary magnetic potential is expressed as a zonal harmonic series whose terms are proportional to a complex multipole response function χn of order n. The frequency dependence of the real and imaginary parts of χn is demonstrated to have diagnostic features related to the geometry and to the electric properties of the core and the shell."
"The operation of a spherical electrostatic probe in a weakly ionized, collision-dominated gas, such as the D region of the ionosphere, is examined theoretically. A plasma consisting of one type of positive ion, one type of negative ion (or electrons), and a neutral gas is assumed to surround the (stationary) probe. The equations governing the collection of positive ions by a negatively biased probe are developed from a continuum theory after Su and Lam (1963) and are solved numerically. For highly negative probes a method is found to solve the equations in their exact form. Current-voltage characteristics for probes of moderate size in comparison with the Debye length are presented graphically. It is shown that the current to the probe varies approximately as the 0.6 power of the probe voltage, which varies slowly with the ratio of probe radius to Debye length. The current also varies approximately as the 0.75 power of the positive ion concentration for D-region conditions. These conclusions show the importance of including space charge in the theory and agree rather well with those of Balmain's (1966) simplified analysis. A considerable improvement is obtained over the results of Su and Lam for the regime of interest."
"Graphs of phase and group refractive indices computed from the collisionless magnetoionic theory are presented. The indices are computed for both the entire range of electron concentration and the intensity of the earth's magnetic field to be encountered by operational topside ionospheric sounders in the International Satellites for Ionospheric Studies (ISIS) series (Alouette 1, Explorer 20, Alouette 2, ISIS-A, ISIS-B)."
"Model profiles of plasma frequency and electron gyrofrequency are chosen to simulate typical conditions observed in the topside ionosphere by the Alouette 1 sounder (1000 km) and the Alouette 2 sounder near apogee (3000 km). Examples of group refractive index profiles for these models are presented. Applying parabolic-in-log X lamination techniques to the plasma frequency profiles, ‘cumulative delays’ are computed to illustrate the relative delays contributed by each lamination to the formation of topside ionograms. Complete ionograms (ordinary, extraordinary, and Z traces) are presented for all the models. Implications of the results to the inverse experimental problem of scaling ionogram data and computing electron concentration profiles are discussed. It is concluded that high-altitude (sounder height above 1500 km) ionograms cannot be reliably and accurately reduced to electron concentration profiles using standard open-loop procedures (i.e., N(h) profile computed from scaled extraordinary trace data alone). To process high-altitude ionograms satisfactorily, closed-loop procedures, as follows, are required: (1) compute N(h) profile and ordinary and Z traces from extraordinary trace data; (2) compare computed and scaled ordinary and Z traces on a CRT display unit; (3) correct extraordinary trace scaling and iterate computations in (1) and comparisons in (2), until computed and scaled values agree. An operational, man/CRT/computer on-line system (FILMCLIP: Closed-Loop Ionogram Processor for the analysis of topside sounder ionogram Films) based on this approach has been developed at Ames Research Center."
"General formulations for the fluctuations of a beam wave propagating through a homogeneous or locally homogeneous medium are given in terms of the spectral density of the index of refraction. The amplitude and phase correlation functions and the mean-square fluctuations are derived for a homogeneous medium showing the dependence on the radial distance in the transverse plane of the beam. The amplitude and phase structure functions are derived for a locally homogeneous medium. The correlation functions and the structure functions do not depend only on the difference coordinate; they are functions of the radial coordinates in the beam cross section. This particular inhomogeneity, however, is shown to be an analytic continuation of the homogeneous or locally homogeneous case. The mean-square amplitude fluctuation for the Kolmogorov's locally homogeneus medium is shown to behave as a plane wave for a short distance and then to become less than that of a spherical wave, and its spectrum is shown to behave as K-1 for large K in contrast with the plane and spherical waves. The spread of the beam radius is shown to be approximately the 8/3 powers of the distance L for small distance, and its, increase depends on the magnitude of the index of refraction fluctuation."
"The radio loss between two small dipoles located in a forest is examined in the frequency range of 2–200 MHz by characterizing the forest in terms of a dissipative slab backed by an imperfectly conducting ground. A careful derivation of the total radio loss L shows that it consists of four distinct constituents: (1) a basic loss L0 associated with the forest-air interface, (2) a separation loss Ls due to the vegetation above the antenna, (3) a wave-interference loss Li due to field reflections at the ground plane, and (4) an antenna input resistance loss Lr produced by the ground proximity. The functional variation of these losses is consistent with previously obtained results that viewed the field in terms of a lateral wave, which now affords a simple physical interpretation for each of the separate factors enumerated above. By choosing parameters describing typical forests, we show that the variation of the four constituents leads to a total loss whose behavior agrees with available experimental data and with previous theoretical considerations pertinent to high antennas. In contrast to these, the present investigation predicts, for low antennas, that vertical polarization is preferable to the horizontal one and that communication conditions may be further improved if the operating frequency is increased rather than decreased. The antenna height gain effect is also examined in detail, and it is shown to be strongly affected by the ground proximity in a manner that had not been recognized hitherto."
"The waveguide modes guided by a smooth concave tropospheric layer are considered. The model is chosen so that the effective dielectric susceptibility is a linear segmented function of height. The calculations are made explicitly for a model that is linear with height except for a single inversion layer. It is shown that such a layer will support whispering-gallery or earth-detached modes with exceedingly small attenuation even when the refractive index contrast is four or five N units."
"Measurements of the phase difference between the signals from ionospherically propagated radio waves received on a vertical whip antenna and on a horizontal dipole at the same location are shown to lead to an estimate of the relative powers in the ordinary and extraordinary components when the propagation path is such that quasi-longitudinal approximations may be used. The technique is valid for incoherent signals, where the incoming waves are considered to be made up of many individual rays. When spaced antennas are used, an estimate of the mean difference in bearing angle between the ordinary and extraordinary components is possible."
"An investigation of VLF radio-wave propagation across a land-sea boundary has been completed. The influence of the homogeneous ionosphere and the curvature of the earth, as well as the ground discontinuity, are considered. The problem of finding the field strength due to a horizontal line source is first formulated as a Wiener-Hopf type problem via the concept of equivalent surface impedance and is subsequently solved in the Fourier-transform plane. This solution has direct correspondence with that for dipole excitation and is expressed analytically in terms of the reflection and transmission coefficients of modes in the two sections of the earth-ionosphere waveguide."
"The effects of the auroral and polar zone ionosphere on forward propagation in the HF through low-VHF (3 to ∼30 MHz) portion of the spectrum are reviewed. Phenomena that particularly affect the propagation of HF/VHF signals in this region include: the non-great-circle (NGC) mode, sporadic-E ionization, F1-layer effects, F-region irregularities, D-region absorption, and reflectivity properties of the polar ice caps. Specifically, we show that: (1) The NGC mode can cause deviations from the great-circle path up to 90° and can carry the maximum frequency on a polar circuit (2) Sporadic-E ionization occurs primarily during the winter-night period and is sometimes associated with the aurora. (3) F1-layer effects are quite important and frequently determine the dominant propagation mode during summer mornings at sunspot minimum. (4) Auroral zone absorption is quite ‘patchy’ in spatial and temporal behavior and probably attenuates HF signals up to 60 db in severe cases. (5) Polar cap absorption, although a relatively rare event, can attenuate HF signals up to 100 db at times. (6) For multi-hop modes, the relatively high attenuation for reflection on the ice caps should be considered in the transmission loss equation. Research performed during the decade ending in 1968 is emphasized, including some quite recent results of investigations conducted at the Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska, not previously reported in the literature."
"The phase and the field strength of VLF signals on 15.5 and 22.3 kHz from Australia have been observed in Japan. Some new features of the phase behavior during sunrise are pointed out, and the nighttime field strength relative to the daytime field strength is compared with results observed along another transequatorial path over the American continent."
"The University of Illinois and the GCA Corporation, supported by NASA, launched four Nike-Apache rockets from Cassino, Brazil, during the solar eclipse of November 12, 1966. The measurement of D-region ionization loss rates was the principal aeronomic objective of the four rockets. Each rocket carried a 3385-kHz radio propagation experiment and a Langmuir probe. The probe data were calibrated by the radio data to give electron number densities. At the mesopause (82 km) the electron densities were 800, 400, 300, and 100 cm−3 at full sun (2 hours after totality), at 2.5% visibility of the solar disk, at second contact and at third contact, respectively. The full-sun measurement of electron density at 65 km was 100 cm−3. By the time of second contact, the electron density diminished to less than 10 cm−3 at 70 km and below. At the time of third contact, the electron density was less than 10 cm−3 at 75 km and below. No significant differences were visible between the electron densities observed at second and third contact and at 2.5% visibility for altitudes between 95 and 100 km. A well-defined sporadic-E layer was observed at 104 km."
"A preliminary analysis suggests that the VLF signal strength minima (in decibels) observed during transition fading can be described by the First Asymptotic Distribution of the statistical theory of extreme values. In addition, the distribution of outage time relative to a fixed threshold level during transition fading seems to follow the Third Asymptotic Distribution."
"The distribution of the instantaneous frequency and power of the signal associated with a given Doppler spectrum is investigated for two cases: (case A) where the power at any frequency of the Doppler spectrum is exponentially distributed and (case B) where the power at each frequency is determinate. It is found that in case A the joint distribution of the instantaneous power and frequency depends only on (1) the total power, (2) the mean, and (3) the variance of the Doppler power spectrum. This result holds to a first approximation for case B also. The distributions of (1) instantaneous power, (2) instantaneous frequency, (3) average power as a function of instantaneous frequency, (4) average frequency as a function of instantaneous power, (S) variance of frequency as a function of instantaneous power, and (6) variance of power as a function of instantaneous frequency are also obtained. In particular, it is shown that the mean of the instantaneous frequency is equal to the mean power-weighted frequency of the Doppler spectrum in case A. In case B, this result is only approximately valid."
"The feedpoint singularity in the current on an axially symmetric antenna with a slice generator is removed by a well-defined subtraction procedure involving a new integral equation for the antenna current. In contrast to the usual linear antenna theory in which an open-ended tube is chosen as the basic model for the antenna, this paper considers a model in which the antenna is either a sliced closed hollow shell or a sliced solid conductor. The nonsingular portion of the current is shown to have several desirable features. One of the major desirable features is that it yields an input admittance of an infinite cylindrical antenna comparable to that obtained by Duncan's extrapolation procedure. Another is that the reciprocity relation between the transmitting and receiving properties of an antenna can be formulated rigorously in terms of the finite parts of the currents."
"Reflection of a plane transient electromagnetic wave from a plasma half-space and a plasma slab is considered. The plasma is assumed to be cold and collisions are neglected. Under these assumptions, the Laplace transforms may be inverted exactly, yielding a solution in the form of Bessel function series. The numerical results, for the waveform of the reflected field, exhibit features that are easily related to the plasma frequency of the slab and its thickness."
"By using the Born approximation and the Gaussian model for the correlation of refractive index fluctuations in the atmosphere, an expression for the power in the first-scattered field of the TEM∞ mode is obtained. It is demonstrated that the second-scattered field does not contribute to beam broadening in the lowest-order approximation. The total power in the first-scattered field is found. The transverse profile of the scattered power is shown to be a function of a single parameter θL, which depends strongly on the ratio of the beam radius to the scale of turbulence a/l0. Values of l0 and the mean square fluctuation of the refractive index 〈n12〉 are determined in an illustrative comparison with experimental data of the theoretical profile of a broadened beam."
"The Helmholtz integral theorem for the scattering or radiation of radio waves from surfaces is examined to obtain a more general approximation of the observed field distribution. The resulting new integral expansion is particularly responsive to evaluation by the method of stationary phases, yielding a quantitative solution applicable to a more general class of surfaces and aperture boundaries than was previously feasible. The problem of reflection from finite irregular surfaces, such as terrain or atmospheric layers, is evaluated formally. The result indicates a source of significant reflections not generally treated by ray theory."
"A new, vectorial, approximate solution is presented for a particular class of problems: that of a vector wave propagated through a linear, isotropic, piecewise-homogeneous medium with irregular interfaces and boundaries. This class of problems lacks not only an exact method of solution but also a reliable method of approximation for tropospheric radio propagation at VHF and higher frequencies. A method is proposed that incorporates a recent expansion of the Helmholtz integral to evaluate the Stratton-Chu integral by the methods of stationary phase. To demonstrate its potential, the method is applied to two of the simplest thin-screen problems."
"Solutions of the continuity equation for electrons in the F2 region of the earth's ionosphere are obtained by including parameters for the various physical processes experienced by the plasma moving in the electromagnetic-drift frame of reference. The electric field responsible for such a drift is derived from an electric potential, so the E×B/B2 drift velocity has an east-west component in addition to the usual vertical one. The Jacchia model atmosphere is used, and the description of the photoionization process uses the Chapman function for absorption of radiation by the neutral atmosphere. The ratio of electron temperature to ion temperature can be varied with time. Account is taken of recombination with both molecular oxygen and molecular nitrogen. Other processes included are diffusion and neutral air winds. The velocity of the neutral air winds is assumed to be zero at the equator for equinox conditions and at 15° latitude reaches a maximum of 35 m sec−1 directed away from the equator at 1300 LT and a maximum of 55 m sec−1 directed toward the equator at 0100 LT. It is shown that the east-west component of the electromagnetic drift has little effect on the solutions. For sunspot-minimum atmospheric conditions, better agreement with observations in the equatorial region is obtained when the vertical component of the electromagnetic drift velocity peaks at noon rather than at 1500 LT. The sunspot-maximum results show that there is a phase difference in the electromagnetic drift between sunspot-maximum and sunspot-minimum conditions. The over-all magnitudes of equatorial NmF2 agree fairly well with observations for both sunspot-minimum and sunspot-maximum conditions. The equatorward wind at night is a necessary feature to maintain NmF2 at its observed levels at latitudes higher than about 10°. Within 10° of the equator winds do not play an essential role in the maintenance of the nighttime ionosphere. Preliminary results for a moderate latitude field line with a model variation of T1/T2 show several features that are in accordance with Evans' data for the period when the evening increase in NmF2 occurs."
"Johler has pointed out an error in a previous derivation of the wave-hop series for an anisotropic ionosphere. The error, which results in inaccurate field strengths for some ionospheric models (especially at night), is corrected in this paper."
"The HF propagation loss behavior, in general, and the observed losses over the north-south path reported here, in particular, can be explained in terms of a deterministic and a random component. Thus, the results are presented as the cumulative distributions of loss by frequencies and by modes in terms of their median and decile values. The most significant aspect of these data and the accompanying statistics is that the propagation losses were observed and analyzed strictly on the individual mode basis. Among these propagation modes are included 2-hop E, 1-hop F2, 2-hop F2, 2-hop E2, and N. From the medians and the deciles of the loss distributions of these various modes, it is quite apparent that propagation losses are mode dependent, day and night dependent, and sometimes high- and low-ray dependent. The £-mode losses also appear to be dependent on the ratio of the operating frequency and the maximum observed frequency of the path."
"The way in which a mechanical lock-on type of direction finder of small aperture can be used for recording the variations of incoming wave-normal direction in both the vertical and horizontal planes is discussed. The limitations arising from the inertia of the system are considered. It is shown that, in the case of near-antipodal short-wave ionospheric propagation (Great Britain to New Zealand), the received cone of rays usually contains two or more main groups displaced in angle in a plane that is nearly vertical."
"The ground surface exhibits a varying conductivity for different horizontal directions. It is excited by vertically or horizontally polarized waves. The ground produces a coupling between TM and TE field components. The net horizontal fields are modified by the anisotropy, except for the horizontal magnetic fields of the TM modes, which remain the same as under isotropic conditions; the horizontal electric fields are decreased near the directions of higher ground conductivity. The resulting pattern distortions of a horizontal wire antenna are explained by using simple closed-form expressions."
"The problem of specifying the minimum magnitude of the maximum electric field over an azimuthally symmetric slotted cylinder subject to the constraint of a specified radiated power into a given wedge angle is treated. Aperture bounds are presented for both the TE, TM and the general TE/TM excitation of the slot. The degree to which these bounds are attainable is discussed, and their relationship to uniform illumination of the aperture is examined. The problem of synthesizing a specified field pattern over the given angle is also treated."
"The amplitudes and differential Doppler of two radio signals transmitted to Mariner 5 as it was occulted by Venus are utilized to derive the dayside and nightside ionization distributions in the upper atmosphere, and the temperature and pressure profiles of the lower atmosphere. Both sides of Venus have ionization peaks near the 140-km altitude level; the day-time peak is 30 times greater in electron number density. The nightside ionosphere extended up to an altitude of at least 1000 km, and the dayside ionization terminated in a plasmapause near an altitude of 500 km. There may be a wake of planetary ionization extending a great distance in the antisolar direction. The neutral atmosphere was probed down to within 35 km of the planetary surface. Differences in the temperature and pressure profiles for the nightside and dayside, and apparent kilometer-size structure in the atmosphere, are discussed."
"The refractivity of carbon dioxide has been measured at 2.26 GHz under simulated Martian conditions and at standard temperature and pressure. In the temperature range of 150° to 190°K, at pressures from 2 to 25 millibars, the refractivity per molecule per cm2 is 1.78 × 10−7 ± 0.06 when scaled by the ideal gas law. The measurements include pressures and temperatures which are within 3°C of the sublimation curve. This result is slightly lower than the best measurements previously obtained near standard temperature and pressure at other frequencies (1.8345 × 10−17 ± 0.0003) and at 2.26 GHz under standard conditions by the authors (1.8413 × 10−17 ± 0.005). It is concluded that the scaled refractivity of CO2 in the range of temperatures and pressures stated above may be a few per cent lower than under standard conditions. These results do not significantly alter the conclusions regarding the atmosphere of Mars as measured by the radio occupation method."
"Transhorizon propagation techniques and their usefulness in determining atmospheric parameters are discussed. It is concluded that the state or structure of the atmosphere cannot be inferred unambiguously from individual measurement techniques used in experiments reported to date. However, because of the sensitivity of the transhorizon radio signals to changes in the parameters of the troposphere, it is suggested that combinations of available techniques be pursued to determine the parameters uniquely."
"It was shown by G. D. Thayer and J. J. Freeman that corrections to refraction-induced errors can be expressed in terms of error functions for propagation in an exponential model atmosphere. Using Freeman's equations as an example, we replace the error functions by their asymptotic expressions, thereby giving closed form equations. To extend the usefulness of these functions for short ranges and small elevation angles, an empirical adjustment is made."
"Single-pulse and double-pulse methods for measuring the cross-correlation (two polarizations transmitted and received) or auto-correlation (one polarization only) function of the scattered signal are described. The statistical errors associated with various forms of multi-bit (no quantization errors in the sampling process), one-bit, and hybrid estimators of the correlation function are calculated and compared, both for large and small signal-to-noise ratios. Roughly speaking, when the signal correlation is small, the hybrid estimators require π/2 and the one-bit π2/4 times as many independent samples as the multi-bit estimators to achieve the same statistical accuracy, but this disadvantage is often more than compensated for by an increase in the effective sampling rate. When the correlation is 0.5 or more, there may be a substantial difference between estimators of the same class (multi-bit, for example). Systematic distortions of the correlation function and limitations on resolution associated with the finite receiver bandwidth and transmitted pulse length are calculated. The effect of a refractive index slightly less than unity is mentioned."
"Studies of radio waves (2.22–2.66 MHz) partially reflected from the lower ionosphere (50–90 km) have been used to calculate the magnitudes of the Fresnel irregularities required to give the observed signal strengths. These irregularities require 1–18% perturbations in electron density and show a distinctive seasonal variation, having a minimum in summer and a maximum in winter. Recently published electron-density profiles obtained from rocket probes have revealed fine-scale structure comparable in magnitude and vertical dimension to these calculated perturbations. The reflection coefficients and the magnitudes of the equivalent Fresnel irregularities are calculated for individual irregularities and are shown to be only 3 to 4 times less than those required by the radio-wave data. Reflections from several of these closely spaced irregularities should give rise to signals comparable with the observations. It appears that the fine structure in these profiles is real and has much smaller vertical dimension than any other published measurements of mesospheric parameters."
"Several diffraction problems whose solutions involve incomplete Airy functions are briefly described; general and asymptotic characteristics of these functions are summarized. A uniform asymptotic representation, in which the incomplete Airy functions serve as canonical functions, is given for the class of integrals characterized by two saddle points arbitrarily positioned relative to an end point. Proceeding from an appropriate boundary-layer expansion, the functions and their properties are applied in a detailed analysis of the fields near the point of confluence of the caustic of a converging wave and the shadow boundary resulting from the presence of an opaque obstacle."
"The input resistance of a Hertzian electric dipole located over a homogeneous conducting half-space is considered. It is shown that the functional dependence of the input resistance on the ‘loss tangent’ of the half-space is consistent with electrostatic concepts, provided the frequency is sufficiently low. On the other hand, at the higher frequencies, the results are compatible with the surface impedance formulations based on the compensation theorem. The results have possible application to remote sensing of planetary surfaces from an elevated source."
"A relativistic formulation for the fields of sources in a uniformly moving, isotropic, dispersionless, conducting medium is developed in terms of Green's functions. Solutions are found in closed form for the cases of stationary charge sources and harmonic current sources. Cerenkov phenomena are observed and discussed. The work differs from former treatments in that a self-consistent scheme is given which accounts for relaxation effects involving conduction charges. The results apply for all values of conductivity."
"No abstract is available."
"The Stokes phenomenon is studied with respect to an equation of Bessel type, and it is shown that the Stokes lines are associated with the cut in the complex plane required to make the complex exponential integral single-valued. The Stokes constant is derived by considering the continuity conditions at all points along a single Stokes line. Numerical examples are given for the calculation of Hankel functions and the roots of the Airy integrals and their derivatives. Applications to phase-integral theory and possible extensions to other equations are indicated."
"Sources of direct information on the electrical parameters of the moon include earth-based astatic radar, earth-satellite bistatic radar, lunar-lander astatic radar, earth-based radiothermic measurements, lunar orbital magnetic field measurements, and lunar-lander magnetic attraction experiments. These pieces of information, when fitted to a reasonable geological model of the moon, permit estimation of the depth profiles of electrical conductivity, dielectric constant, and magnetic permeability. At lunar surface dc conductivities as low as 10−12 mho/m may occur, and conductivities as high as 10 mhos/m appear possible for the deep lunar interior. It is demonstrated that interpretation of the Exploror 35 lunar satellite magnetometer data is at present based on such inadequate theory that the above range of values of conductivity could be quite consistent with the orbital magnetic field data. Anomalous ‘dc’ dielectric constants as high as 1010 could exist in the lunar interior if pore water and metallic minerals are present in juxtaposition. Magnetic permeabilities as large as 1.7 can be present in the lunar surface rocks. Typical depth profiles of conductivity and dielectic constant that fall within the extremes noted above are presented."
"The straightforward way to determine the mean scattered power is to square-law detect the incoming signal and average the results. This is also the optimum technique from a statistical point of view. Various other detection schemes are only slightly inferior, however, and may be substantially more convenient when the entire signal processing problem is considered. This paper examines the pros and cons of a number of these possibilities."
"A complete description is given of the method used at the Jicamarca Radar Observatory to derive Faraday rotation information (and hence absolute electron density profiles that do not require subsequent normalization or correction for the effects of Te/4) from incoherent scatter data. Similar techniques which could be used at other observatories with radars not having the unusual properties of the Jicamarca radar are discussed. At temperate and polar latitudes the optimum frequencies for incoherent scatter Faraday measurements in most of the ionosphere are roughly 100–200 MHz. Somewhat higher frequencies should give acceptable daytime results, however. A slight modification of the Faraday measurement, used at Jicamarca to obtain the autocorrelation function of the scattered signal, is also briefly described."
"The influence of an earth-centered dipole magnetic field upon the bearing deviation of medium range HF ray paths in the ionosphere is investigated by using the ESSA three-dimensional computer ray tracing program for a variety of conditions involving quasi-parabolic layer models and actual electron density profiles deduced from ionograms gathered during a direction finding experiment. The adequacy of the dipole model is examined by comparing the bearing deviations obtained from it with those for a magnetic field based upon spherical harmonic expansion using Gaussian coefficients."
"A simple theory of focusing is discussed, and amplitude probability distributions are related to distributions of curvature at the reflector. The results are applicable to amplitude distributions of radio signals reflected from the ionosphere."
"Electromagnetic radiation from sources immersed in a cold magnetoplasma is analyzed by the use of ‘principal-polarized’ wave coordinates; and the wave fields, the mean complex radiated power, and the Poynting vector are systematically expressed in terms of ‘polarized' wave modes. For each polarized wave mode, the medium is effectively isotropic, since the Fourier-transformed wave equation for each principal mode is decoupled and is similar to the one obtained from the usual scalar Helmholtz operator. In application of the theory, consideration is made of the radiation resistance of a linear electric antenna of moderate length oriented both parallel and perpendicular to the static magnetic field. Approximate closed form expressions for the radiation resistance are obtained for the VLF frequency range by using a plasma model appropriate to the magnetosphere. These approximate closed form expressions are compared with the results obtained previously by other workers using a quasi-static approximation, and it is shown that excellent agreement exists between the two methods of analysis. It is concluded that the quasi-static approximation can accurately predict the radiation resistance of a linear antenna in the magnetosphere, given certain moderate restrictions on the antenna length."
"The current distribution and the input admittance of a cylindrical antenna immersed in two types of uniaxial resonant plasmas are treated in this paper as boundary value problems. It is first indicated that the Hallen type integral equation approach is not suitable, since it does not describe the actual physical phenomenon closely. The method used here is based on the concept of multiple reflections of current waves between the two terminals of a solid antenna, and simple approximate solutions for thin antennas are obtained by using the newly developed extension of the Wiener-Hopf technique."
"Expressions for the electric vector of the first- and the second-order cross modulation have been derived for an amplitude-modulated wave propagating in a nonlinear dispersive medium as well and for a normally incident wave reflecting back into free space from the plasma free-space interface. In the discussion, some numerical results illustrating the variation of the cross modulation with different plasma parameters are presented in tabular form."
"No abstract is available."
"It is shown that for the American zone the F-region equatorial anomaly and the equatorial electrojet are highly correlated, whereas the anomaly and the Sq current system correlate poorly. A suggested explanation for the correlation is that the eastward electric field which drives the electrojet is also present in the F-region and there causes upward plasma flow."
"The 136 MHz transmissions from ‘Canary Bird’ were recorded at Nairobi, 1.32°S, 36.8°E, 26°(dip) from June 1967 through February 1968. The receiving system used a Yagi aerial rotating 1 rev in 6 sec. Plots of diurnal variation of Faraday rotation are given for the months of July, October, November, and December 1967 and January and February 1968. These plots show general agreement with the mean diurnal variation of total electron content as determined from the traveling satellite BE-B. One important feature which is much more marked in the geostationary satellite records is a large increase in total electron content at about 2300 hours; at this time there is commonly a marked lowering of ionosphere height This peak, which is also apparent in f0F2, is thought to be associated with movement of the equatorial anomaly maxima."
"Measurements of total electron content by Faraday fading have been made at three frequencies on BE-B at Nairobi from October 10, 1954, to the present day; two passes a day are recorded. Similar measurements on one frequency only have been made at Dar es Salaam and Addis Ababa. A computer program has been written which is specially suitable for low-latitude stations and computes the M values and total electron content as a function of latitude. Errors arise from reduction of the records to locate the transverse point and from approximations in the theory. However, more serious errors are due to insufficient knowledge of the effective height and inclination of the ionosphere. Comparisons of the electron content computed at Nairobi with computations made by Koster and Golton show differences in detail but agreement in general form. Many more records remain to be reduced, to which may be added results for the BE-C, but the results so far are very variable. On many occasions when an equatorial anomaly in total content is expected to show in total content, it does not appear. The expected pattern for the development of the equatorial anomaly is most apparent during the equinoxes."
"This paper presents the results of total electron content measurements made at São José dos Campos (23.22°S, 45.98°W) between 1963 and 1968. The 1963 measurements were made by using the differential Doppler shift technique, and from December 1964 onwards the close-spaced-frequency method was employed using the 40 and 41 MHz transmission from the BE-B and BE-C satellites. An analysis is made of the variation of electron content with local time, dip angle, season, solar activity, and magnetic activity. Special attention is given to the equatorial anomaly and the region of the Brazilian magnetic anomaly."
"This paper is an observational study of the equatorial anomaly during a period of declining solar activity. The anomaly is studied at two different longitudes, 75°W and 105°E. Data from both the topside and the bottomside of the F region are used. The topside data were obtained by the satellite Alouette 1. Seasonal and daily variations, longitude dependence, and geomagnetic storm-time distortions of the anomaly are treated."
"Effects of the velocity dependence of collision cross sections (momentum and energy transfer in a 3-component ionospheric gas) on the transversely propagated hydromagnetic waves at the equator are studied. The ordinary mode is found to be profoundly affected, but the extraordinary mode is not. These effects should be important in estimating joule heat including mode-mode coupling and reflections in a vertically stratified ionosphere. It is also shown that the space-charge electric field due to neutral wind drag in the dynamo region of the ionosphere provides adequate energy to the electrons to compensate for their cooling by inelastic collisions with neutral molecules."
"Measurements of electron concentration and electron temperatures by the Langmuir probe experiment of the Explorer 22 satellite during 1966 are employed to study the response of the topside ionosphere, at 1000 km, to magnetic storms. The analysis was limited to the American longitudes (50° to 130°W) over a latitude range from 50°S to 70°N geomagnetic. The daytime response is characterized by various degrees of electron-density enhancements over the entire latitude range, with the winter high latitudes undergoing highest enhancement. The electron-temperature changes are not so unique. An attempt is made to explain some of these features qualitatively, based on thermal expansion of the upper atmosphere during storms and the “viscous drag' of the solar plasma on the magnetosphere."
"Examples of various concurrent ULF field fluctuations observed at: Jicamarca (Peru), College (Alaska), and Byrd (Antarctica) are presented to demonstrate the similarity of geomagnetic micropulsations of both Pi and Pc types at equatorial latitudes. The beginning of one Pi 1 event showed as much as 10-sec difference in onset times at a world distribution of stations. The apparent arrival of the signal varied according to the geomagnetic latitudes of the observatories. Magnetospheric sources of geomagnetic pulsations may be observed with equatorial station data."
"Pi 2 micropulsations observed ‘simultaneously’ at two widely separated low-latitude stations: M'Bour, Senegal, in West Africa, and Makerere, Uganda, in East Africa have been compared. The variation in the waveforms has been measured in terms of an average damping coefficient and the number of excursions taken for events to reach their peak amplitude. The differences in the waveforms are discussed in terms of dispersion varying with distance from the Pi 2 source and the damping coefficient varying with time. Shorter period activity has been noted in association with some Pi 2 events and an estimate of the relative apparent phase velocity of the higher-frequency component has been made."
"Six years of magnetic quick-run records made at the low-latitude M'Bour Observatory have been analyzed. It was found that the frequency of occurrence of pulsations Pc 3 and 4 presents a marked diurnal variation characterized by two principal maxima, at sunrise and around local noon. The curves of occurrence are compared with the diurnal variation of the critical frequency of the ionospheric F2 layer at Dakar. The morning maximum of pulsations corresponds to low values of f0F2 which contrasts with high values corresponding to the noon maximum. In conclusion the frequency of occurrence of the geomagnetic pulsations Pc does not appear to be directly related to the critical frequency of the F2 layer."
"Forty years of geomagnetic activity data at Huancayo are evaluated in two periodicities: the hourly and the daily changes of the horizontal magnetic field intensity. Monthly means of both periodicities are affected similarly by solar activity in that they both show the characteristic semiannual variation. Although the amplitudes of the hourly changes follow solar activity changes closely, the daily changes show a ‘bite out’ near sunspot maximum when annual means of each are compared. The ‘bite out’ may be due to the occurrence of magnetic storm depressions of a different duration at that time. The results suggest that the slower magnetic variations at the dip equator should not be studied as a single manifestation but in periodicity bands, as micropulsations are studied."
"The papers in this issue are based upon some of the contributions presented at the Third International Symposium on Equatorial Aeronomy held at the Physical Research Laboratories, Ahmedabad, India, February 3–10, 1969. Previous meetings of the Symposia had been held in Huaychulo, Peru, in 1962, and in São José dos Campos, Brazil, in 1965."
"Under a grenade series of experiments with sounding rockets made at Barreira do Inferno, Natal (5.6°S, 35°W), 19 successful launchings have yielded useful data on the upper stratosphere and the mesosphere during the period August 7, 1966, to March 5, 1968. These experiments covered the height range of about 35–95 km and were supplemented by radiosonde data from 19 balloons that provided data up to approximately 35 km. Also, data from 29 meteorological rockets with an upper limit of 60 km are available for the period September 14, 1966, to July 24, 1968. Only 2 of these 29 launchings were instrumented for temperature measurements. Data on winds, temperatures, and densities have been obtained and analyzed from the rocket-grenade and balloon experiments. Some features of the wind and temperature distributions in the upper stratosphere and mesosphere are discussed. Extremely low mesopause temperatures of the order of 130°K were noticed in early summer at about 90 km. The temperature at this height was found to be higher in winter than in summer. A correlation between temperature at 40 km and absorption of cosmic noise at 30 MHz is also presented as a probable evidence of stratosphere-ionosphere coupling."
"The variation of nondeviative absorption of radio waves in the ionosphere with solar zenith angle has been studied at different spot frequencies. The experimental results suggest that the theoretical expression for the nondeviative absorption in the morning and evening hours should contain a constant absorption term along with the term dependent on the solar zenith angle. In the present communication it has been shown that the constant absorption term is present throughout the day, but its effect is not apparent toward noon hours, and at these hours the experimentally observed values of absorption at a fixed frequency appear to be a function of solar zenith angle only. The probable origin of the constant absorption term has been discussed."
"Results are presented of theoretical investigations of the nature of nondeviative radio-wave absorption at vertical incidence, in an isothermal ionospheric region where collisional frequency is comparable to the exploring frequency and where the recombination coefficient is not constant but is a function of height. It has been shown that in such cases the variation of nondeviative absorption with solar zenith angle and frequency may be represented by the expression: L ∝ {(cos χ)n/ω ± |ωL|C +n} where symbols have their usual meaning. The values of n and C are such that (2 − C) ≥ n ≥ 0 and 3/2 ≥ C ≥ 1/2."
"A study of the occurrence frequency of equatorial Es (Esq) and daytime blanketing Es at Ibadan (dip 6°S) and Zaria (dip 3°N) in Nigeria is presented. The period of study covers the years 1958 to 1965. Experimental results from the study reveal that Esq and blanketing Es are different phenomena and that a high incidence of Esq is usually accompanied by a low incidence of blanketing Es, and vice versa. In addition, the extent of the Esq belt in Nigeria is deduced from the relative occurrence of Esq and nonequatorial Es during the daytime at Ibadan."
"After a brief presentation of Sq and L electric current systems deduced from geomagnetic data, electric conductivities and wind models in the dynamo region are discussed. It is then shown that the solar negative-mode thermal diurnal tide and the lunar semidiurnal gravitational tide having a phase shift with altitudes produce the best fit Sq and L current systems, respectively. Distributions of electrostatic fields are computed, and electromagnetic drift speeds in the ionospheric F region are also examined. These calculated values agree well with observed results."
"The position of the magnetic dip equator at 100 km and the gradient of position with time and altitude are tabulated using the POGO (10/68), GSFC (12/66), and IGRF (10/68) geomagnetic field models. The positions agree within a few tenths of a degree with each other but differ up to 2° from older models and charts. The maximum gradients with time (0.2°/yr) and altitude (—0.3°/100 km) occur to the west of Africa."
"The daytime measurements of the velocities and other fading characteristics of equatorial Es and blanketing Es irregularities in the frequency range 4–6 MHz are presented for Ibadan. The modes of signal returns by the two groups of Es are discussed. The experimental results suggest that the equatorial E, irregularities observed in the 4–6 MHz frequency range at Ibadan are of a similar nature to those observed at 50 MHz at Huancayo during a weak electrojet. A tentative inference from the equatorial E, results is that the magnitudes of equatorial Es velocities may be independent of the relative strength of electrojet intensity."
"A rocket-borne Langmuir probe and plasma-noise probe have been used to study the ionization irregularities of scale sizes 20 meters to 0.4 meter in the lower equatorial ionosphere over Thumba during the evening twilight of February 2, 1968. Ionization irregularities were observed mostly in the height range 97–106 km, 142–155 km and around 170 km. The spectral index n was calculated for a power law of the type E(k) = Akn. In the 100-km region, irregularities with different spectral indices were found to coexist, indicating the superposition of at least two different spectra. The irregularities with spectral index of —3.0 to —3.5 are probably produced through neutral turbulence, whereas irregularities with spectral index of —1.6 to —2.0 are probably produced by electric fields. The irregularities observed near the rocket apogee are produced by the rocket itself and have a spectral index of +3.0. The actual values of these indices are likely to be more (including sign) than given by the present calculations since the detection efficiency of a Langmuir probe for the irregularities may be size-dependent."
"Comparison of the occurrence of VHF radio propagation over a 6620-km transequatorial circuit between Korea and northern Australia with the development of the equatorial anomaly in the F layer shows that the transequatorial propagation mechanism is closely related to changes in the form of the equatorial anomaly. Signal occurrences are most common when the anomaly in f0F2 exhibits sharp well-defined crests located fairly symmetrically on either side of the dip equator at dip angles between 20° and 30°. These crests correspond to large horizontal gradients in the F layer ionization density, which are known to be capable of refracting radio waves at frequencies well above the normal for a horizontally homogeneous F layer. It is suggested that all transequatorial VHF signal occurrences observed over this circuit can be explained in terms of an F2F2 propagation mode, with the ionospheric refractions occurring at the crests of the equatorial anomaly."
"No abstract is available."
"It is shown that an exact equivalence exists between a monochromatic correlator interferometer using directional antennas and a wideband correlator interferometer using isotropic antennas. The necessary relationship between the frequency response function of the receiving system and the aperture illumination of the antennas to achieve the equivalence is derived."
"A ray-optical description for the surface wave contribution to the far fields radiated by an electromagnetic point source in the presence of a planar interface between two lossless, homogeneous, anisotropic media is formulated. The surface wave rays are viewed as extending radially along the interface from the normal projection of the source onto the interface. Locally, the ray fields are those of the modal surface waves carrying energy in the ray direction. The effect of anisotropy on the surface wave radiation pattern is also considered."
"In this paper, an unbounded, collision-free magnetoplasma of one species is analyzed by applying linearized theory. Modifications on the cold plasma dispersion surfaces due to the temperature effect are indicated by typical examples. To take into account the particle-wave interactions, a microscopic model of the magnetoplasma is analyzed for very large refractive indices and for very high temperatures. Two directions of propagation (along and across the biasing magnetic field B0) are considered, According to the results of the microscopic model, at gyroresonance for propagation along B0 the complex refractive index n cannot have arbitrarily large values if its phase angle is between –π/4, and π/4, whereas, for propagation across B0, n becomes real and arbitrarily large. Both of these results contradict those of the compressible fluid model."
"The noise received by an antenna immersed in a hot plasma is directly related to the input resistance of the antenna as computed by Kuehl (1966), using a Maxwellian velocity distribution. The result is rederived for a plasma with any stable velocity distribution."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"The International Scientific Radio Union,1 better known as URSI (an abbreviation derived from the French name, Union Radio Scientifique Internationale), is one of the oldest of the family of scientific unions comprising the International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU). The Union was founded in 1913 under the title ‘International Commission of Scientific Wireless Telegraphy,’ and it celebrated its golden jubilee in 1963 in conjunction with a general assembly held in Tokyo. The history of the Union, and the development of its commissions, and programs, and worldwide services, was recorded in the URSI Golden Jubilee Memorial volume published by the URSI Secretariat in 1963. The aims of the Union as stated by the late J. H. Dellinger in his history of the URSI in the Jubilee Memorial are2: 1. To promote international cooperation in the scientifics study of radio. 2. To encourage and aid in the organization of radio research requiring cooperation on a large scale. 3. To promote the establishment and use of common methods and standards of measurement. 4. To encourage and aid the discussion and dissemination of the results of these activities."
"The community of radio scientists in the United States participates in URSI through a committee of the Division of Physical Sciences of the National Research Council. The Research Council was organized in 1916 by the National Academy of Sciences at the request of President Wilson to enable the broad community of scientists and engineers in the country to associate its efforts with those of the more limited membership of the Academy in service to science and the nation. Members of the Research Council and its committees, boards, and panels are drawn from governmental, academic, industrial, and other institutions and organizations throughout the country. The Research Council is supported by private and public contributions, grants, and contracts, and by voluntary contributions of time and effort by several thousand of the nation's leading scientists and engineers."
"This paper describes an experimental investigation of the 1.63-mm H2O absorption line for nitrogen-water-vapor mixtures and for oxygen-water-vapor mixtures. Frequency sweep measurements were made at pressures between 1 and 5 mm of mercury and measurements at discrete frequencies were made for pressures between 200 and 760 mm of mercury. These measurements were made over a range of temperatures from 242° to 325°K. Data for the attenuation and line breadth constant as a function of temperature are presented."
"The observed diurnal phase changes of VLF radio waves show large deviations from the theoretical first-mode phase change. The main features of the deviations are explained by the presence of a second mode that is larger than the first mode at night but that is small during transitions and during daytime. The data indicate that for frequencies above 16 kHz, nighttime second-mode dominance extends out to several megameters from the transmitter, in agreement with theoretical predictions."
"Analytical formulas including those for group and phase paths for radio rays in quasiparabolic (ionospheric) layers with spherical symmetry are presented in a convenient table. Their most important singularities are summarized in another table. By means of these formulas a transmission-slider technique is presented for the determination of the shapes of oblique ionograms. The phenomenon of low-angle cutoff is explained as well as the phenomenon of the trapping of waves. For a trapped wave it is shown that the group path between successive reflections is independent of the direction of the ray. The properties of rays in spherical layers are summarized, and some simple cases with nonspherical layers are discussed. In particular, a method is given for ray tracing in a wedge."
"The irregularities that produce the partial reflection of radio waves (1.5–6.0 MHz) from the D region are investigated. Experimental evidence indicates that reflection usually occurs from localized irregularities rather than from a region of smaller scale turbulence."
"A new formulation of the single-polynomial analysis is presented, in which the electron density profile is assumed to begin with a flat base at a height equal to the lowest measured virtual height. This formulation gives a more accurately defined profile with only a small number of points and agrees with the assumptions normally made. Near the critical frequency the electron density profile is required to approach a parabolic distribution. Coefficients are given for the rapid analysis of ionograms taken anywhere in the world. The height of the peak, the scale height at the peak, and the subpeak electron content, along with five or six points on the electron density profile, are obtained directly from a small number of measured virtual heights."
"Sweep-frequency CW radio signals transmitted over 1300-km north-south and 1900-km east-west temperate-zone paths were received 24 hours per day for 2½-day periods. Measurements of the incoming one-hop F-layer polarization, as a function of time-of-day and radio frequency, indicate that daytime rates of change of polarization rotation with frequency (at an instant of time) average 1 turn/MHz over the north-south path and 0.25 turn/MHz over the east-west path. These values are in good agreement with computer raytracing predictions of the rates of change of polarization rotation with frequency over similarly disposed paths. It was observed that nighttime polarization rotation rates are about 1 to 4 times as high as those measured during the day. It was also experimentally found that the rate of change of the incoming polarization with frequency first decreased and then increased with incoming radio frequency, the minimum rate occurring near 0.8 MOF0. Daytime rates of polarization rotation with time (at a given frequency) average 0.25 turn/min. The polarization rotation rates with time do not appear to vary either with path azimuth or transmitted radio frequency. Near-zero rates of polarization rotation with time occur for much of the nighttime period. Large fluctuations in the polarization variations occur with both time and frequency throughout the day. Polarization measurements made with signals that were reflected from a nonblanketing, nighttime sporadic E layer of about two hours duration indicate that, for this layer, circumstances other than polarization effects, probably multipath, determine much of die observed signal strength variations with frequency and time. The results suggest that for round-the-clock temperate zone propagation, when linearly polarized antennas are employed, a qualitative threshold for envelope distortion of broadband signals (due to variation in the incoming polarization with frequency) occurs when signal bandwidths exceed approximately 100 kHz for north-south paths and 400 kHz for east-west paths. The effects of such distortion may be reduced either by operating near 0.8 MOF0 or by the use of circularly polarized antennas."
"The first variation of the phase path is developed from the point of view of Hamilton, and the result is applied to the calculation of Doppler frequency shift and group path. The second variation δm δnP of the phase path P is considered in the general case when the medium depends on both m and n. By generalizing identities arising in the usual investigation of extrema and by obtaining equations that must be satisfied because the arcs concerned are rays, a number of alternative expressions are found. These involve contributions due to the endpoints of the ray, due to the m,n dependence of the medium along a fixed ray, and due to the m,n dependence of the actual ray path. The application of the results to differential Doppler and Faraday fading measurements is briefly discussed. As an illustration a problem involving approximately straight rays in a plane, horizontally stratified medium is discussed and approximate expressions are found for P and dP/dt."
"A technique is described for automatically simulating a multitude of ground-backscatter displays with information supplied by three-dimensional computer ray tracing. Model ionospheres containing realistic wavelike traveling disturbances are used to produce representative displays and to correct some misconceptions about the interpretation of backscatter signatures."
"The near fields of a circular loop antenna have been evaluated and discussed for various size loops. The results are obtained in a form that is useful in predicting the microwave breakdown characteristics of the antenna."
"Approximate boundary conditions in the first and second approximations are obtained for stratified tensor media. The approximate conditions make possible the solution of electrodynamic problems without examination of the fields inside the anisotropic layers. The layer thickness in all cases is assumed to be small compared with the wavelength in any layer. The accuracy of the approximate boundary conditions is estimated for one particular example. It is shown that boundary value problems involving ferrite layers near the waveguide walls reduce to solutions of eigenvalue problems with definite boundary conditions along the periphery."
"Some aspects of the propagation of scalar waves in bounded, randomly fluctuating media are considered. Specifically emphasized are the interface effects on the coherent wave motion in the limit of small-scale fluctuations. It is shown that the procedure whereby a bounded, fluctuating region is replaced by an effectively homogeneous medium whose properties follow from the analysis of the appropriate unbounded domain may not be applicable, and an effectively inhomogeneous profile is generally required. In the case of fluctuations in a one-dimensional medium bounded by a planar interface (for which explicit solutions are found), we conclude that the interface perturbs the coherent wave motion to a significant extent over a large distance from it. The three-dimensional model reveals several deviations from the corresponding one-dimensional case; the most significant stems from the observation that the interface effects are now confined to a well-defined ‘transition’ layer of the order of a wavelength in thickness."
"A general expression for the noise spectrum received by an antenna in an isotropic plasma is derived by using a combination of plasma fluctuation theory and the reciprocity theorem. The special case of Maxwellian velocity distributions of the constituents is then considered. In the still more special case of thermal equilibrium Nyquist's theorem is shown to be satisfied. It is shown that a ‘Maxwellian’ energetic electron constituent carrying only a small fraction of the total thermal energy can enhance the spectral power density of antenna noise just above the plasma frequency. The maximum enhancement factor is equal to the square of the ratio of the ‘thermal’ velocities of the high- and low-energy electrons. There is no such enhancement in the resistance of the antenna."
"The biquadratic plane-wave dispersion relation (Appleton-Hartree type) for anisotropic dielectrics or anisotropic magnetic materials is extended to include the case of a medium that has both dielectric and magnetic properties. The quartic equation (generalized Booker quartic) for the refractive-index vector component normal to a given fixed component is also developed for the same medium and is discussed, together with the connection with the subsidiary biquadratic equation used in anisotropic waveguide analysis."
"The authors wish to thank J. R. Wait for calling attention [Wait, 1968] to an error in equation 10 of our paper [Dougherty and Maloney, 1964]. As a result of that error, the plot of A(0, ρ) in Figure 4 is also in error. Fortunately, the A(0, ρ) has since been evaluated by Kalinin [1965] for the correct form of (10) and by Dougherty [1965] and Dougherty and Wilkerson [1967] for an alternative formulation of the problem. Comparison with these results shows the original Figure 4 to be accurate to better than 1 decibel for ρ < 0.9."
"The principles of a lightning location method using the VHF signals emitted by the discharge are outlined. Consideration of the source characteristics (notably signal strength and intervals between pulses; of the noise background; of the differences between the signals incident at spatially separated receivers; and of the electronic equipment now available commercially) indicate that the method is entirely feasible. For a lightning flash at a distance of 20 km, a spatial resolution of 200 meters, and a temporal resolution of 20 μsec could be readily obtained; consequently, the development of the successive VHF radiating events in the discharge could be traced."
"Phase and amplitude records of 18.6-kHz transmissions from NPG/NLK received at eight sites varying in distance from 4,360 to 13,420 km southwest of the transmitter, confirm the existence of a region within ±20° of the magnetic equator, in which VLF propagation parameters vary significantly from their midlatitude values. At all seven sites that involved transequatorial propagation paths, anomalies (including cycle slipping) were observed during the sunrise transition. The nature and temporal occurrence of these anomalies depended on the distance of the receiver from the magnetic equator. The experimentally derived dependence on magnetic latitude of the mode conversion ratio of the two least attenuated propagating modes and their apparent interference spacing are presented."
"Weakly attenuated components of the VLF mode spectrum associated with propagation below highly anisotropic ionospheres are presented as a function of frequency and azimuth. In particular, results for the phase velocity, attenuation, polarization mixing ratio, and excitation factor for vertical dipole excitation are presented in the frequency range of 10–30 kHz for midlatitude paths, whereas azimuthal dependencies are presented for a frequency of 19.8 kHz and dip angles of 0° and 60°. The ionospheres are described by exponential electron density and collision frequency profiles, and the primary region of wave-plasma interaction falls in the highly anisotropic region of the inonosphere. It is shown that polarization mixing is much more pronounced for a westerly propagation path than for an easterly path at midlatitudes, and, as a result, principally TE modes can be expected to influence the mode sum for frequencies at least as low as 20 kHz for propagation to the west. On the other hand, as has been shown previously, contribution to the mode sum by principally TE modes for propagation to the east becomes significant only near 30 kHz. Azimuthal anomalies include drastic polarization changes in going from easterly to westerly paths. For example, in the case of transverse propagation at the magnetic equator, it is shown that modes that are pure TM for propagation to the east may be pure TE for propagation to the west. Tantamount to this is the statement that modes that have dominant excitation for propagation to the east may have vanishing excitation for propagation to the west. Azimuthal dependencies are shown to be very often characterized by rapid variation of the mode constants in the neighborhood of north-south or south-north propagation. These variations manifest themselves in marked differences of the mode sum for azimuthal changes at least as small as 10°. Unfortunately, the azimuthal dependencies of the mode constants do not appear to lend themselves to any simple analytical approximations."
"Limitations of numerical maps of lower decile, median, and upper decile values of f0E8 derived for each month of both a solar cycle minimum and a solar cycle maximum year, and some applications to propagation problems are discussed briefly. The numerical map coefficients and contour charts for representative months and hours of the day in 1954 and 1958 are published."
"Attention is drawn to similarities between certain magnetoionic formulas in ionospheric radio propagation and corresponding formulas for acoustic-gravity waves. Acoustic waves are similar to radio waves with frequencies above the electron gyrofrequency, whereas gravity waves are similar to whistlers."
"A correlator supersynthesis array is defined as an array of antennas connected together in pairs as interferometers and capable of tracking a radio source during its apparent motion in the sky. Some problems in the design of such arrays are discussed. A computerized optimization technique, termed pseudodynamic programming, is described for the design of such arrays and some results are presented. The limitations and capabilities of the technique are discussed."
"Mutual coupling between the waveguides in finite arrays has been analyzed by using the integral equation method. Numerical solutions are obtained from which we find that the coupling in general decreases with the wavelength, as well as the distance s between the waveguides, and that for large separations the rate of decrease is inversely proportional to However, when the waveguides are loaded with dielectric plugs, the characteristics of coupling may be substantially changed, owing to the excitation of modes that are propagating inside the dielectric but evanescent in the empty waveguide region. For example, the coupling may be greatly enhanced or suppressed depending on the choice of parameters such as the dielectric constant and plug thickness. In particular, it is found that under suitable conditions the coupling can exhibit resonance characteristics."
"The classical Sommerfeld problem of electromagnetic wave propagation over a flat earth is reformulated by using the electromagnetic compensation theorem. The solution is carried through without recourse to the usual spectral representation of the potential function, and therefore complicated contour integrations are avoided in the subsequent evaluation. Using reciprocity and duality, the complete electromagnetic fields are calculated for elemental vertical or horizontal dipoles of both electric and magnetic types, which are elevated above an arbitrary but passive surface impedance such as that corresponding to homogeneous, horizontally stratified, or uniformly rough surfaces. The results are identical to the little known but more accurate work of Norton, and under certain approximations they reduce to the more well-known results of Norton, Hufford, Bremmer, and others. The restrictions on the impedance properties of the surface are given, and certain direction finding errors are discussed. It is shown that the index of refraction contrast between the upper and lower medium need not be large."
"A cylindrical antenna is embedded in a dielectric cylinder, which is surrounded by a compressible isotropic electron plasma. The antenna impedance is formulated variationally by considering the effects of surface waves supported by the antenna structure. The surface waves alter the antenna current distribution for frequencies near the plasma frequency, but their amplitude is decreased as the thickness of the antenna insulation increases. The antenna solution is verified by examining the electric surface fields excited by the approximated antenna current distributions, and the results are compared with other numerical solutions."
"An analysis of the propagation of the mean or average plane wave in a compressible isotropic turbulent plasma is presented. It is shown that the average wave separates into a longitudinal and a transverse mode, and their dispersion relations are derived. The analysis is based on the first-order smoothing theory in the form developed by Keller and assuming a Gaussian correlation function. It is found that mode coupling is a strong effect in the short correlation length region but becomes negligible for long correlation lengths. Useful approximations to the dispersion relations are also given for the short, intermediate, and long correlation length regions as well as numerical results for the perturbed propagation constant of the average transverse wave. The application of the theory to a random dielectric medium is pointed out and a quantitative evaluation of the importance of the depolarization term, i.e. the grad div term, in the vector Helmholtz equation is made."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"TIME AND FREQUENCY On Friday, October 13, 1967, the General Conference of Weights and Measures adopted the atomic definition of the unit of time, the second. The development of atomic frequency standards is still most heavily weighted toward cesium beam devices, with considerable work also on hydrogen masers [Vessot et al., 1966; McCoubrey, 1967]. Probably because of budget problems, there has been little work on thallium beams. There has been significant interest in optical frequency standards with a notable development of a methane-stabilized laser by John Hall [Barger and Hall, 1969]. Current emphasis on atomic frequency standards is toward more nearly optimum performance. Atomic frequency standards have an important use in long baseline interferometry [Gold, 1967]."
"The past three years evidence vigorous activity in the areas of interest to Commission 2, especially those concerned with planetary atmospheres, rough surfaces, effects of turbulence, and the general applicability of millimeter waves for scientific study and for communications. If any particular study were to be designated outstanding, it might be the investigation of clear-air structure by microwave radar, but meaningful advances have been made in all of the areas discussed."
"The major advances in our understanding of the morphology of the D region in the last three years have come about through the application of rocket techniques. A series of rocket measurements carried out at Wallops Island [Mechtly and Smith, 1968a] at different seasons but at roughly the same solar zenith angle have shown the principal features of the seasonal variation in the electron density profile between 50 and 100 km. It appears that electron densities are lower by a factor of about 3 below 82 km on ‘normal’ winter days as compared with summer days for a solar zenith angle of 60°. The anomalous winter days of high absorption have been the subject of a separate rocket investigation [Sechrist et al., 1969], which has shown that the electron density profile is remarkably similar to that of a normal summer day and that in at least one case was associated with a pronounced temperature inversion near 70 km."
"Since the last report was written (in the spring of 1966), there has been a remarkable advance in our knowledge and understanding of the structure and behavior of the magnetosphere, especially with regard to the fundamental problems of the aurora and geomagnetic storms."
"The institutions that contributed material for this report are: 1. Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory. 2. NASA—Goddard Space Flight Center. 3. Bell Telephone Laboratories. 4. University of Texas. 5. University of Maryland. 6. University of Virginia. 7. Florida State University. 8. Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories. 9. Stanford University. 10. MIT Lincoln Laboratory. 11. Ohio State University. 12. University of Colorado. 13. National Radio Astronomy Observatory. 14. Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 15. Owens Valley Radio Observatory. Only a minor attempt has been made to mention work performed at other observatorieisn the U.S.A."
"In this area, by far the greatest effort has been focused on arrays, particularly phased arrays; the results have been summarized in three books [Hansen, 1966; King et al., 1968] and two special journal issues [Radio Science, 1968; IEEE, 1968]. Complete design formulas for scannable Baklanov-Chebyshev arrays [Tseng and Cheng, 1968] and new approximations for long Dolph-Chebyshev arrays [Dram, 1968] were developed. Infinite array models dominated in numerous studies of large phased arrays. Grating lobe effects were investigated by the induced emf method [Stark, 1966] and by use of impedance craters [Wheeler, 1966]. Important and unexpected element pattern nulls not attributable to grating lobes have been observed and explained as coupling accumulation [Lechtreck, 1968] and as external resonances in dielectric sheets [Knittel et al., 1968; Wu and Galindo, 1968]. They have also been observed as mismatches in array simulators [Hannan, 1967a]. Proof of the possibility of impedance matching for all scan angles has been offered [Hannan, 19676] and contested [Varon and Zysman, 1968]. Limited control of coupling for wide angle impedance matching has been achieved by means of dielectric sheets [Magill and Wheeler, 1966], hole coupling of waveguides [Amitay, 1966], multiple modes in waveguides [Tang and Wong, 1968], and parasitic chokes [Dufort, 1968], and the form of asymptotic decay of coupling with distance has been established [Galindo and Wu, 1968]. Systematic procedures for the design of phased array elements have appeared [Wheeler, 1968; Amitay et al., 1968], as have methods of analysis of waveguide phased arrays without [Farrell and Kuhn, 1968], and/or with [Borgiotti, 1968a] dielectric sheets. Finally, there was developed an important geometrical description of phased array behavior, based on the fundamental principle of planar apertures, that unifies much of the existing knowledge of infinite arrays [Diamond, 1968]. A thorough application of this development to arrays of rectangular waveguides shows clearly the individual roles of the lattice and the elements [Ehlenberger et al., 1968]. The same principle was used to compute mutual admittances between slots [Borgiotti, 19686], and formulas for observable stored energies of planar apertures have been derived from it [Rhodes, 1966] and contested [Borgiotti, 1967; Collin, 1967]."
"As in previous summaries, the words ‘information theory’ are used in the wide sense to include such areas as (1) statistical communication theory, (2) detection theory, (3) pattern recognition and adaptive systems, (4) coding theory, and similar examples of the interaction of random processes and communication systems. For classification purposes, progress in information theory will be described under the four headings just listed."
"The advances of the past 3 years in the science and technology of quantum electronics are well summarized by the technical programs of the May 1968 International Conference on Quantum Electronics, held in Miami [IEEE, 1968a], and of the May 1969 Conference on Laser Engineering and Applications, held in Washington, D. C. [IEEE, 1969a], The pace of development of new laser devices, new techniques, and new basic quantum electronic phenomena does not seem to be slowing, even though the maser concept has been with us for two decades, and working laser devices for one decade. On the technological side, the development of practical laser applications has obviously reached and passed the take-off point, with new and different practical applications of lasers emerging at a rapid rate in an almost uncountable number of applications areas."
"Since Commission 8 was only created on a provisional basis at the Munich General Assembly of URSI in 1966, and since also the U.S. National Committee does not maintain an organization for Commission 8 within the U.S.A., it seems appropriate for informative reasons to start this survey by listing the fields of scientific activity overed by the Commission. These are: 1. Atmospherics, their source characteristics and location. 2. Propagational influences on radio noise (with Commission 3). 3. ELF noise from lightning (with Commission 4). 4. Types of lightning flashes generating whistlers. Propagational effects, other than those in the whistler mode, influencing whistler characteristics (with Commission 4). 5. Statistical properties of noise, noise interference with radio communications. 6. Man-made noise."
"The mean field is considered for a bounded medium with a refractive index having a real random part. It has been shown previously that for suitable ranges of the amplitude and correlation length of the refractive index fluctuations, this field satisfies a certain integrodifferential equation. This equation is solved for a plane wave incident from either side on the plane boundary of a semi-infinite random medium, for the Green's function of a semi-infinite random medium, and for a plane wave incident on a slab of random medium, provided that the background refractive index is homogeneous throughout. The cases of both one- and threedimensional fluctuations are considered, and explicit expressions are given for the reflection, transmission, and coupling coefficients for a medium with an exponential correlation function. A Wiener-Hopf factorization required for other correlation functions is described, as are methods for treating reflection and transmission at a curved boundary of a random medium. A principal finding is the inadequacy of treating the mean wave in a bounded random medium by using just the refractive index for an unbounded random medium, for in addition we must include a transition layer near the boundary."
"The problem of reflection and transmission of a plane electromagnetic wave at an interface separating two moving media is discussed. Contrary to previous studies, the model does not exclude normal components of the velocities with respect to the interface. The general formalism yields dyadic reflection and transmission coefficients. The results are applied to the Cerenkov radiation phenomenon, the Fizeau experiment, clear-air scattering (when the two media have the same constitutive parameters in their respective rest frames), and ray optics in moving media."
"A method is presented for solving the inverse magnetotelluric problem. By means of a transformation of variables, the earth is modeled at low frequencies as a lossless, nonuniform transmission line. The approach described utilizes the realizability and synthesis theory available for this class of lines. As a result, the numerical calculations reduce to the solution of an approximation problem involving a rational function of ω½, where ω is the angular frequency. The remaining computations are straightforward and lead to a unique determination of the conductivity as an implicit function of depth."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Experimental results are presented which demonstrate that significant intermodulation and cross-modulation products are generated in both the RF amplifier and mixer, in a typical receiver. Measured values of four additional spurious-response types are given for the same receiver. The measurement techniques used represent a departure from traditional methods."
"This publication presents standard test procedures for Geiger-Muller counter radiation detectors. These detectors, originally announced by ?Geiger and Muller in 1928, represented a major step forward in the detection and counting of individual radioactive events. Standard test procedures are desirable so that measurements may have the same meaning to all manufacturers and users."
"Recommended rate gyro test procedures derived from those currently in use, including test conditions to be considered, are compiled. In some cases alternate methods for measuring a performance characteristic have been included. This standard is intended to be a guide in the preparation of Section 4 of a specification that follows the format of IEEE Std 292, Specification Format for Single-Degree-of-Freedom Spring-Restrained Rate Gyros."
