"Many classes of comma-free codes have been proposed. Among them, path-invariant comma-free codes have the advantage of relative simplicity of encoding and decoding. In this correspondence, we present a construction method for these codes which is a unified generalization of the known construction methods. By this method some new classes of path-invariant comma-free codes are obtained."
"It is shown by several examples that if D. A. Huffman's pulse train design is modified to allow one nonzero pair of sidelobes in addition to the unavoidable end sidelobes in the autocorrelation function, then a substantial increase in the central peak for the same maximum pulse energy can be achieved."
"An upper bound on the error probability of a decision-feedback equalizer which takes into account the effect of error propagation is derived. The bound, which assumes independent data symbols and noise samples, is readily evaluated numerically for arbitrary tap gains and is valid for multilevel and nonequally likely data. One specific result for equally likely binary symbols is that if the worst case intersymbol interference when the firstJfeedback taps are Set to zero is less than the original signal voltage, then the error probability is multiplied by at most a factor of2^Jrelative to the error probability in the absence of decision errors at highS/Nratios. Numerical results are given for the special case of exponentially decreasing tap gains. These results demonstrate that the decision-feedback equalizer has a lower error probability than the linear zero-forcing equalizer when there is both a highS/Nratio and a fast roll-off of the feedback tap gains."
"This paper examines codes for four-dimensional (4-D) modulation and their performance for digital transmission. The signals are defined byMpoints inside a sphere in four-dimensional Euclidian space. Three classes of 4-D codes are presented, and an algorithm is given which yields good 4-D codes of any length. Bounds on symbol error probability are plotted versus symbol-energy-to-noise-density ratio. The performance is shown to exceed that of amplitude- and-phase modulation in two independent two-dimensional channels."
"Source coding theorems are proved for discrete-time stationary processes subject to a fidelity criterion. The alphabet of the process is assumed to be a separable metric space, but the process is not assumed to be ergodic. When the process is not ergodic, the minimum average distortion for a fixed-rate code is not given by the distortion-rate function of the source as usually defined. It is given instead by a weighted average of the distortion-rate functions of ergodic subsources comprising the ergodic decomposition of the source. Potential applications to universal source coding with a fidelity criterion are discussed."
"Let\\xi = \\{\\xi(t), 0 \\leq t \\leq T\\}be a process with covariance functionK(s,t)andE \\int_0^T \\xi^2(t) dt < \\infty. It is proved that for every\\varepsilon > 0the\\varepsilon-entropyH_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi)satisfies \\begin{equation} H_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi_g) - \\mathcal{H}_{\\xi_g} (\\xi) \\leq H_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi) \\leq H_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi_g) \\end{equation} where\\xi_gis a Gaussian process with the covarianeeK(s,t)and\\mathcal{H}_{\\xi_g}(\\xi)is the entropy of the measure induced by\\xi(in function space) with respect to that induced by\\xi_g. It is also shown that if\\mathcal{H}_{\\xi_g}(\\xi) < \\inftythen, as\\varepsilon \\rightarrow 0\\begin{equation} H_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi) = H_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi_g) - \\mathcal{H}_{\\xi_g}(\\xi) + o(1). \\end{equation} Furthermore, ff there exists a Gaussian processg = \\{ g(t); 0 \\leq t \\leq T \\}such that\\mathcal{H}_g(\\xi) < \\infty, then the ratio betweenH_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi)andH_{\\varepsilon}(g)goes to one as\\varepsilongoes to zero. Similar results are given for the rate-distortion function, and some particular examples are worked out in detail. Some cases for which\\mathcal_{\\xi_g}(\\xi) = \\inftyare discussed, and asymptotic bounds onH_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi), expressed in terms ofH_{\\varepsilon}(\\xi_g), are derived."
"Shannon's rate-distortion function provides a potentially useful lower bound against which to compare the rate-versus-distortion performance of practical encoding-transmission systems. However, this bound is not applicable unless one can arrive at a numerically-valued measure of distortion which is in reasonable correspondence with the subjective evaluation of the observer or interpreter. We have attempted to investigate this choice of distortion measure for monochrome still images. This investigation has considered a class of distortion measures for which it is possible to simulate the optimum (in a rate-distortion sense) encoding. Such simulation was performed at a fixed rate for various measures in the class and the results compared subjectively by observers. For several choices of transmission rate and original images, one distortion measure was fairly consistently rated as yielding the most satisfactory appearing encoded images."
"In this correspondence we evaluate both the large and small sample performance of a limiter-quadratic detector (LQD) for the detection of a Gaussian signal in non-Gaussian noise. The LQD is shown to be robust for small as well as large sample sizes."
"Two methods for automatic selection of nearest-neighbor reference data have been compared in small-scale experimentation. One of the methods is original and appears to be more successful than Hart's well-known \"condensed nearest-neighbor\" method [1]."
"Transmission of a time-discrete message over a time-continuous channel is considered. The channel is assumed to be stationary and Gaussian. The following results are shown. 1) An optimum receiver will always contain a matched matrix filter followed by a sampling unit. 2) Jointly optimized transmitting and receiving filters will always be strictly band limited to a set of Nyquist domains. It is shown that both these results are true for any kind of message and under any measure of performance. On the basis of these results a general time-discrete matrix channel equivalent to the original time-continuous scalar channel is derived. The significance of the results is that any optimization of transmitter and receiver is reduced from a time-continuous problem to a time-discrete one."
"The testing of binary hypotheses is developed from an information-theoretic point of view, and the asymptotic performance of optimum hypothesis testers is developed in exact analogy to the asymptotic performance of optimum channel codes. The discrimination, introduced by Kullback, is developed in a role analogous to that of mutual information in channel coding theory. Based on the discrimination, an error-exponent functione(r)is defined. This function is found to describe the behavior of optimum hypothesis testers asymptotically with block length. Next, mutual information is introduced as a minimum of a set of discriminations. This approach has later coding significance. The channel reliability-rate functionE(R)is defined in terms of discrimination, and a number of its mathematical properties developed. Sphere-packing-like bounds are developed in a relatively straightforward and intuitive manner by relatinge(r)andE (R). This ties together the aforementioned developments and gives a lower bound in terms of a hypothesis testing model. The result is valid for discrete or continuous probability distributions. The discrimination function is also used to define a source code reliability-rate function. This function allows a simpler proof of the source coding theorem and also bounds the code performance as a function of block length, thereby providing the source coding analog ofE (R)."
"This paper is concerned with the detection of a random signal in white Gaussian noise when both the signal and the noise are two-dimensional random fields. The principal result is the derivation of a recursive formula for the likelihood ratio relating it to certain conditional moments of the signal. It is also shown that, except for some relatively uninteresting cases, a simple exponential formula for the likelihood ratio, such as one has in one dimension, is not possible."
"When tracking targets in dense environments, sensor reports originating from sources other than the target being tracked (i.e., from clutter, thermal false alarms, other targets) are occasionally incorrectly used in track updating. As a result tracking performance degrades, and the error covariance matrix calculated on-line by the usual types of tracking filters becomes extremely unreliable for estimating actual accuracies. This paper makes three contributions in this area. First, a new tracking filter is developed that incorporates, in an a posteriori statistical fashion, all data available from sensor reports located in the vicinity of the track, and that provides both optimal performance and reliable estimates of this performance when operating in dense environments. The optimality of and the performance equations for this filter are verified by analytical and simulation results. Second, several computationally efficient classes of suboptimal tracking filters based on the optimal filter developed in this paper and on an optimal filter of another class that appeared previously in the literature are developed. Third, using an extensive Monte Carlo simulation, the various optimal and suboptimal filters as well as the Kalman filter are compared, with regard to the differences between the on-line calculated and experimental covariances of each filter, and with regard to relative accuracies, computational requirements, and numbers of divergences or lost tracks each produces."
"The probability density function (pdf) for the output of an analog cross-correlator with correlated bandpass inputs is derived. The pdf is derived by a \"direct method\" without resorting to the \"characteristic function method,\" which usually requires contour integrations in a complex plane for inversion operations. The correlator consists of bandpass filters, a multiplier, and a zonal low-pass filter. We treat the general situation in which the two inputs are narrow-band signals of unequal power and of different phases. The bandpass input noises are assumed to be correlated and may have different powers. In the Appendix, another derivation for the pdf is given in the special case of equal power correlated noise. This derivation is based on the fact that the correlator output random variable is the difference of two independent noncentral chi-square variables of two degrees of freedom. We show that the two expressions for the pdf (one from the direct method and the other from the characteristic function method) are indeed equivalent. Finally, we discuss two major areas of application."
"A formulation of finite-memory information processing problems is presented. The total state space of the system, including the \"memory\" of the source and processor, is assumed to be finite. A cost functional is specified over the trajectories of the system and a variational approach is used to minimize cost. There results a two-point boundary value problem and an associated improvement algorithm. Special attention is given to two types of cost functionals: finite-time problems, and time-average problems over an infinite time interval. Several examples are included."
"We present a view of the learning phase of statistical pattern recognition as a problem in optimum mode switching for learning systems which can operate in the supervised and nonsupervised modes. We assume the standardJ-category statistical pattern recognition model, in which patterns are represented as points in Euclideann-space and the learning problem is to estimate the unknowns in the problem probability structure. More specifically, we assume each learning sample can be processed in either mode, but the machine incurs a cost for this processing--a larger cost for processing in the supervised mode than in the nonsupervised mode. The goal is to have the machine make the decision for each learning pattern concerning mode usage that results in minimum expected cost to learn the unknowns to a predetermined accuracy. We treat the parametric problem as a problem in stochastic control. Simple closed-form expressions partially describing system performance are derived for very general problem probability structures for the case of good learning, or, equivalently, large number of learning samples. Among the results obtained for identifiable probability structures for this case are i) expressions for purely supervised and purely nonsupervised learning costs; ii) a proof that supervised learning is always faster (though not necessarily less costly) than is nonsupervised learning; iii) an example showing that, depending on the relative costs of the two mode usages as well as on the problem probability structure, the learning cost of an optimum combined-mode learning system can be remarkably lower than that of a pure-mode learning system; iv) an argument to the effect that the a posteriori distribution of the unknown parameter vector is asymptotically Gaussian for a wide range of mode usage policies; v) a fairly simple functional equation that can be solved numerically for the optimum mode usage policy (for some probability structures the nature of the optimum mode usage policy can be inferred without resorting to computer calculation); vi) the conclusion that in general optimum mode usage involves mode switching, i.e., pure-mode learning is not optimum. For the most general discretized nonidentifiable probability structure, we show that dual-mode learning may be significantly less costly than is purely supervised learning. This example also illustrates the effectiveness of making use of hard constraints, imposed by prior knowledge or experimentation, in reducing learning cost."
"Articles, books, and technical reports on the theoretical and experimental estimation of probability of misclassification are listed for the case of correctly labeled or preclassified training data. By way of introduction, the problem of estimating the probability of misclassification is discussed in order to characterize the contributions of the literature."
"Optimization of the transmitting filter in a PAM system using a Viterbi detector of constrained complexity is considered. The receiving filter is considered to be a whitened matched filter. A constraint on detector complexity is obtained by limiting the length of the system impulse response. The results are applied to a channel with coaxial cable characteristics. Comparison with other detectors shows that the Viterbi detector is preferable even when the length of the system impulse response is quite short."
"It is shown that there exist arbitrarily long quasi-cyclic(2k,k)binary codes that meet a bound slightly weaker than the Gilbert-Varshamov bound. This is a refinement of the result of Chen, Peterson, and Weldon [1]."
"A construction of cyclic codes in which an \"inner\" cyclic code is concatenated with appropriately chosen \"outer\" cyclic codes is presented. An example of the construction that improves on BCH codes of low rate is provided. Conversely, any cyclic code of lengthn_1 n_2can be constructed by this construction, wheren_1andn_2are relatively prime."
"A search procedure is developed to find good short binary(N,N - 1)convolutional codes. It uses simple rules to discard from the complete ensemble of codes a large fraction whose free distanced_{free}either cannot achieve the maximum value or is equal tod_{free}of some code in the remaining set. Farther, the search among the remaining codes is started in a subset in which we expect the possibility of finding codes with large values ofd_{free}to be good. A number of short, optimum (in the sense of maximizingd_{free}), rate-2/3 and 3/4 codes found by the search procedure are listed."
"The problem of designing uniform-amplitude codes with good autocorrelation functions can be regarded as a problem of mlnimizing a function of several continuous variables. The application of numerical methods of minimization is shown to yield codes with lower sidelobe levels than other known codes of equal lengths. Codes with no sidelobe exceeding unity have been found for lengths as large as 18."
 "A code of integers into binary sequences is called a difference-preserving code (DP code) if it has the following two properties: 1) if the absolute value of the difference between two integers is less than or equal to a certain threshold, the Hamming distance between their codewords is equal to this value and 2) if the absolute value of the difference between two integers exceeds the threshold, then the Hamming distance between their codewords also exceeds this threshold. Such codes (or slight modifications thereof) have also been called path codes, circuit codes, or snake-in-the-box codes. This paper discusses the application of DP codes to pattern recognition and classification problems and presents a construction of efficient DP codes whose information content is asymptotically (in the length of codewords) of the order of theoretical upper bounds."
"This correspondence investigates the possibility of defining the power or energy cepstrum as a generalized function. By applying this definition, the cepstrum can formally be computed, or a formal approximation can be achieved. The asymptotic behavior of the cepstrum is also examined."
"The estimate of the entropy of a language by assuming that the word probabilities follow Zipf's law is discussed briefly. Previous numerical results [3] on the vocabulary size implied by Zipf's law and entropy per word are corrected. The vocabulary size should be 12 366 words (not 8727 words) and the entropy per word 9.27 bits (not 11.82)."
"It is shown that any random process with finite energy can be approximated arbitrarily closely by a mean-square continuous process. We obtain approximants that in addition have continuous sample paths with probability 1. By a straightforward extension of these results, the approximating process can be made to have differentiable sample paths. The approximation can be performed in real time, in the sense that the approximating process constructed can be regarded as the output of a causal linear time-invariant system whose input is the finite energy process that is to be approximated."
"It is standard practice to assume that second-order stationary signal and noise processes involved in a linear estimation procedure have spectral densities. A heuristic justification may be based on the reasoning that the part of the signal having singular spectral distribution can be precisely determined, and the part of the noise having singular spectral distribution can be completely eliminated. Rigorous phrasing and proof of this claim are given here for the most general case, i.e., where the singular parts of the spectral distributions may contain continuous components, in which situation the intuitive picture is obscure. The discussion includes both discrete-time and continuous-time processes, and the multivariable case is also treated."
"A new form of the probability distribution of the phase of a sine wave in narrow-band normal noise is derived. It leads to several different simple expressions for the probability distribution which render the previously required numerical integration of the probability density function unnecessary."
"A computationally feasible parametric procedure for unsupervised learning has been given by Agrawala [1]. The procedure eliminates the computational difficulties associated with updating using a mixture density by making use of a probabilistic labeling scheme. Shanmugam [2] has given a similar parametric procedure using probabilistic labeling for the more general problem of imperfectly supervised learning. Both procedures assume known class probabilities. In this correspondence a computationally feasible parametric procedure using probabilistic labeling is given for imperfectly supervised learning when the class probabilities are among the unknown statistical parameters."
"An upper and lower bound to the probability of error is presented for a digital communication system with dependent symbols affected by additive noise and intersymbol interference. Explicitly considered are two systems in which independent binary symbols are encoded into ternary dependent symbols, i.e., a bipolar code and a dicode. The bounds practically coincide under a proper choice of certain integers; hence the true value of probability of error can be computed as a function of signal to noise ratio."
"It is proved that, when binary strings are Gray coded into multilevel signals, to cause an error ofmbits, the multilevel signal must have an error of more than2^m /3. This generalizes the well-known result that a one-level error in the signal generates only a one-bit error in the binary string."
"Information rates for nonhomogeneous Poisson counting processes are derived. A source coding theorem is proved and rate-distortion functions are obtained for the reconstruction of the sample functions of the latter sources. Distortion measures which depend upon the magnitude of the error as well as on a temporal weighting function proportional to the instantaneous intensity of the source are assumed. The analysis utilizes recent results concerning information rates for homogeneous Poisson processes and appropriate time-scale transformations, which map the source sample functions into an isometric induced source."
"The definition of the rate-distortion function is extended to the case of a stationary-ergodic source with side information, and the appropriate coding theorem is proved. Inequalities between the joint, marginal, and conditional rate-distortion functions for ergodic processes are given, and their implications in terms of universal coding are discussed."
"An upper bound on the entropy per run in binary run-length coding isa \\loga - (a - 1)\\log (a - 1), whereais the average run length. This upper bound is attained by a time-quantized Poisson square wave."
"An upper bound on the minimum distance of binary blocks codes, which is superior to Elias' bound forR < 0.0509^+, is obtained. The new hound has the same derivative(-\\infty)atR = 0as Gilbert's lower bound. (Elias' bound has derivative-\\ln 2atR = 0)."
"A wide variety of continuous- and discrete-time estimation problems on the circleS^1are considered with the aid of Fourier series analysis. Measurement and diffusion update equations are derived for the conditional expectation of certain functions of the parameter to be estimated, and we investigate the use of Fourier series to obtain easily implemented optimal estimation equations. A variety of important examples--phase tracking, frequency demodulation, and phase demodulation in the presence of oscillator instabilities, additive noise, Rayleigh fading, or any combination of these--are considered."
"The practical implementation of the infinite-dimensional optimal estimation results presented in Part I of this series is considered. Several techniques are described in detail. Included among these is the so-called \"assumed density\" approximation technique. Finite-dimensional suboptimal filtering equations based on this method are derived for several of the phase-tracking/demodulation problems studied in Part I. Finally, these techniques are applied to a phase tracking problem of importance in navigation systems such as Omega, and simulation results are reported that favorably compare a system designed using these techniques to an optimal phase-lock loop and an optimal linear system."
"Estimation of the parameters of a single-frequency complex tone from a finite number of noisy discrete-time observations is discussed. The appropriate Cramér-Rao bounds and maximum-likelihood (MI.) estimation algorithms are derived. Some properties of the ML estimators are proved. The relationship of ML estimation to the discrete Fourier transform is exploited to obtain practical algorithms. The threshold effect of one algorithm is analyzed and compared to simulation results. Other simulation results verify other aspects of the analysis."
"In comparing a signalf(t)with its amplitude-distorted formg(f(t)), whereg(\\cdot)is a monotonically increasing function of its argument, one is led to consider the correlation function \\begin{equation} R(s) \\triangleq \\int_{-\\infty}^{\\infty} dtg (f(t))f(t-s). \\end{equation} A rigorous proof is given of the inequalityR(s) \\leq R(O). Generalizations are presented for the cases of finite domains and of signals defined in two-dimensional space."
"The problems of optimum performance and signal design for on-off signaling over linear, time-varying stochastic channels are considered. The channel is modeled as a nonstationary linear time-varying Gaussian filter with additive white Gaussian noise at its output. A new expression for the probability of error is presented and is minimized under the constraint of fixed received energy. An approximately optimum signal design method that yields the minimum probability of error is proposed."
"The sharp lower boundf(x)on the per-symbol output entropy for a given per-symbol input entropyxis determined for stationary discrete memoryless channels; it is the lower convex envelope of the boundg(x)for a single channel use. The bounds agree for all noiseless channels and all binary channels. However, for nonbinary channels,gis not generally convex so that the bounds differ. Such is the case for the Hamming channels that generalize the binary symmetric channels. The bounds are of interest in connection with multiple-user communication, as exemplified by Wyner's applications of \"Mrs. Gerber's lemma\" (the bound for binary symmetric channels first obtained by Wyner and Ziv). These applications extend from the binary symmetric case to the. Hamming case. Doubly stochastic channels are characterized by the property of never decreasing entropy."
"A class of regular jump processes (RJP's) is introduced. An RJP is described in terms of the intensity function of its associated stochastic point process and the state-transition density of its embedded random-state sequence. Expressions for the joint occurrence statistics of these processes are derived. Assuming that an information stochastic process causally modulates an observed RJP, we obtain the joint occurrence statistics of the resulting compound jump processes. We show the latter to incorporate appropriately the causal MMSE estimate of the conditional intensities and state-transition functions. The results are used to derive a general likelihood-ratio formula for information processing of RJP's. A separation is observed between the likelihood processor of the point process associated with the observed RJP and the processor associated with the embedded stochastic state sequence. Considering the detection of RJP's with uncertain (statistically known) probability measures, we obtain the optimal Bayes receiver as the appropriate compound likelihood processor and thus exhibit separation between the detection and filtering operations."
"The ergodic decomposition is discussed, and a version focusing on the structure of individual sample functions of stationary processes is proved for the special case of discrete-time random processes with discrete alphabets. The result is stronger in this case than the usual theorem, and the proof is both intuitive and simple. Estimation-theoretic and information-theoretic interpretations are developed and applied to prove existence theorems for universal source codes, both noiseless and with a fidelity criterion."
"This paper presents majority-decoding algorithms for four classes of binary cyclic codes. The classes are those for which the parity-check polynomial is: 1) the product of two primitive polynomials with relatively prime exponents and 2) the product of(x^r + 1)/(x + 1)and a primitive polynomial, wherer \\geq 3is odd and the exponents are relatively prime, together with the corresponding nonexpurgated codes."
"Chernoff bounds on the error probability for the detection of non-Gaussian stochastic signals in additive white Gaussian noise are computed. By the use of Fokker-Planck (F-P) equations and a certain conditional expectation, the quasi-transition function, an equation for time evolution of the Chernoff bound is obtained. This time evolution equation is solved exactly to give all previously known results. Although the general non-Gaussian case cannot be conveniently solved for short time duratio ns, in the important special case of stationary processes and long integration times, bounding the error probability reduces to solving for the largest eigenvalue\\lambda_0of a differential operator. In particular,P(error) \\leq \\exp (\\lambda_0T), whereTis the observation period. By iteratively determining\\lambda_0via the Galerkin variational procedure, we compare the performance of different receiver forms for a specific problem involving the detection of non-Gaussian random signal processes."
      "The problems of reduced-memory modeling and processing of regular point processes are studied. Them-memory processes and processors are defined as those whose present (incremental) behavior depends only on the present observation of counts and the stored values of the precedingminstants of occurrence. Characterization theorems form-memory point processes and homogeneous reduced-memory point processes are obtained. Under proper optimization criteria, optimal reduced-memory \"moving-window\" information processors for point processes are derived. The results are applied to study reduced-memory processors for doubly stochastic Poisson processes (DSPP's) and to characterizem-memory DSPP's. Finally, a practically implementable scheme of a distribution-free l-memory processor is presented."
"A quantizer that must accommodate a wide range of signal powers would ordinarily require a large number of output levels compared to a quantizer of signals with known power. In this paper a quantizlng scheme is described for situations in which the signal power is unknown a priori but remains constant for the duration of a communication. The required number of levels is reduced because the quantizer amplitude range is adjusted during an initial training period to the value appropriate to the current signal power. At each sample time during the training period, the amplitude range is adjusted by a multiplicative quantity that depends on the most recent quantized output and upon the time elapsed since the onset of training. Assuming independent identically distributed inputs, it is shown that the quantizer range converges to a fixed multiple of the rms value of the input. The ratio of final range to rms input is a unique function of the multipliers, and a formula is presented that allows a designer to choose multipliers that result in any desired range-to-signal ratio. For each final ratio, there are many sets of multipliers, and formulas are derived that indicate, for a limited training period, the tradeoff between the accuracy of the quantizer range and the size of the set of signal powers to which the quantizer can adapt. Computer simulations illustrate the effects of particular multiplier sequences."
"The facts concerning the relative merits of linear and square-law envelope detection of a sinusoidally modulated carrier accompanied by Gaussian noise are clarified in this paper. The comparison when the carrier is weakly modulated and has mean power substantially greater than that of the noise in the input circuit has been fully covered in prior technical literature. In this special case the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in the detected output is the same for the two methods, and the distortion of the signal is worse with square-law operation because of inherent second-harmonic production. Since noise in the detected output is typically measured in the absence of signal modulation, the fact that the relative performance changes when the index of modulation approaches 100 percent tends to be overlooked. It is shown in the present paper that the noise performance of the square-law detector suffers a penalty approaching 1.8 dB when the carrier is strongly modulated. Also, the distortion in the square-law case is characterized by a second harmonic only 12 dB down from the fundamental, while the second harmonic in the output of the linear detector is practically negligible. These results are important in the evaluation of techniques in diversity reception."
"A signal is sent by a two-state Markov source through a noisy channel. The objective is to develop a decoding scheme to obtain a reconstruction of the original signal. Necessary and sufficient conditions are presented, in both a sequential and a nonsequential context, for the optimality of several decoding schemes, including the singlet decoding rule and the data-independent decoding rule. A generalization of the simple noise process given by Drake [1] is presented, and analogous results are derived."
"A receiver structure recently proposed for the detection of pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) signals is considered. The receiver is designed to reduce the complexity of the Viterbi decoder by equalizing the channel to an optimum desired short memory channel. Expressions for the optimum prefilter and short memory model are given. It is also shown that the minimum mean-square error achievable is a monotonic decreasing function of the model memory length. Numerical results for a specific channel are presented verifying this. A numerical investigation of the effect of shifting the reference tap is also included."
"In this correspondence we give a new definition of modular arithmetic weight (relative to any modulusm > 0and any radixr \\geq 2), which has two very useful properties, i) It is defined for all integers and is invariant under congruence modulom. ii) It yields a metric for all modulim. In the important casesm = r^n, m = r^n - 1, andm =r^n + 1, it coincides with the modular weight of Rao and Garcia, and thus acts as a proper measure of errors for these moduli. Due to these properties, we are able to obtain conceptually simpler proofs of several known (as well as some new) results on the computation of modular distance in cyclic AN-codes. Along these same lines we introduce the notion of modular-cyclic nonadjacent form (NAF) whenm = r^n - 1. For moduli of this type, we show that every integer has a modular-cyclic NAF; the number of nonzero digits is the modular weight. It is a curious fact that a \"modular\" version of the well-known Chang/Tsao-Wu algorithm (for computing the NAF) turns out to yield the modular-cyclic NAF directly."
"The problem of buffer overflow in variable-length-to-block and block-to-variable-length coding of fixed-rate finite-state homogeneous Markov sources for transmission through fixed:rate noiseless channels is investigated. Asymptotically optimal converging upper and lower bounds on the probability of overflow are derived. They decrease exponentially with the buffer sizeB. The least ratesR(\\gamma)that achieve exponents\\gammafor both coding methods are obtained, as are the corresponding optimal word assignments. It is shown that for the class of state-calculable sources, variable-length-to-block and block-to-variable-length ratesR(\\gamma)are equal."
"An elementary account concerning the optimum ratio between the source word (block) length and the block length of the corresponding channel codeword is given. By \"optimum\" it is meant that by choosing a suitable ratio of word lengths we can attain the theoretically optimum balance between the average distortion of the source information and the average \"cost\" (in a general sense) of using the channel."
"A communication network is modeled by a weighted graph. The vertices of the graph represent stations with storage capabilities, while the edges of the graph represent communication channels (or other information processing media). Channel capacity weights are assigned to the edges of the network. The network is assumed to operate in a store-and-forward manner, so that when a channel is busy the messages directed into it are stored at the station, where it joins a queue that is governed by a first-come first-served service discipline. Assuming that fixed-length messages arrive at random at the network, following the statistics of a Poisson point process, we solve for the steady-state distributions of the message overall delay time, for the average message waiting times at the individual stations, for the average memory size requirements at the stations, as well as for other statistical characteristics of the message flow along a communication path."
"It is shown how certain innovations decompositions can be used to obtain aa alternative derivation of some new estimating algorithms, based on Chandrasekhar-type equation. Such equations were originally obtained in radiative-transfer theory by using some invariance principles due to Ambartsumian and Chandrasekhar. Stationary processes have a natural shift invariance, but we show here how state-space descriptions can be used to bring out such invariances for nonstationary processes generated as the response to white noise of constant-parameter state-space models."
"This paper selectively surveys contributions to major topics in pattern recognition since 1968. Representative books and surveys pattern recognition published during this period are listed. Theoretical models for automatic pattern recognition are contrasted with practical,, design methodology. Research contributions to statistical and structural pattern recognition are selectively discussed, including contributions to error estimation and the experimental design of pattern classifiers. The survey concludes with a representative set of applications of pattern recognition technology."
 "Poisson's equation in inhomogeneous static magnetic media is derived for the magnetic vector potential and for the magnetic scalar potential. A modified three-dimensional seven-point finite-difference operator to be used in numerical solutions is presented. The special case of discrete inhomogeneity as discussed."
"An inexpensive, reproducible technique for forming films and slabs of ferrite and carbonyl iron loaded polyethylene has been devised. The advantages of this technique are 1) uniform distribution of the powdered material in the resin binder, 2)smooth and flexible specimens of predetermined thickness and dimensions, and 3) reproducible magnetic and dielectric data."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"CoCr2S4, which is a ferrimagnetic insulator, has been prepared by hot-pressing microcrystalline powder. The infrared magneto-reflectance effects have been measured at several temperatures below the transition temperature of 221K. Very large Kerr effects, which are centered at 1.0 and 1.7 μm, have been associated with the principal crystal field transitions of divalent cobalt. These samples exhibit a normal remanence of at least 95 percent, which is attributed to strain-induced anisotropy in the sample. The transmission and Faraday rotation of the material are deduced from Kramers-Kronig and other analysis of the reflectance data. The use of this material in a digital-storage application is discussed"
"Discussed are the main aspects of operation, physics, design, and application of toroidal cores as nondestructive read-out analog memory elements. The analog memory element and switch are the basic components of the analog memory device of the open-loop type (i.e., without negative feedback). The toroidal core has been shown, both theoretically and experimentally, to exhibit linear read-write characteristics in pulse remagnetization. Diode switches are the most preferable for writing analog information. Analysis of the output and read circuits required to determine the optimal value for the read circuit resistance is given. The complex studies carried out resulted in a simple analog memory device with ± 3 percent error and the write time of 0.3μs. Ways to improve these parameters are described."
"In this paper we present a unified treatment of many problems in digital pulse recording. The physics appropriate to each problem is characterized by a reciprocal-space transfer function, which may be abstracted from published studies of sine wave recording. Over twenty-five transfer functions are given in appendices. Given the transfer functions, an inverse Fourier transformation completes each problem. The fields, fluxes, and output voltage due to an arctangent magnetization profile in a tape of unit permeability are derived. A closely related case, that of a linear ramp magnetization, is treated briefly. A step function magnetization is considered for a tape of nonunit permeability in which, dependent upon the boundary conditions, demagnetization and remagnetization occur. Extensions of the theory of multitransition waveforms are undertaken, yielding the spectra of both regular and random sequences."
"Plated wires, 2.5 and 5.0 mils in diameter, have been obtained from various sources and compared to our own 2.5 mil diameter wire made on both copper-beryllium and tungsten substrates. The wires have been tested for their digit, word, and shmoo windows, pulse output and uniformity of output, skew and magnetostriction and their uniformity, the tension and torsion stress changes in the above characteristics, the thickness of the magnetic layer, stability during accelerated aging, and their mechanical characteristics. The characteristics of the wires in the unstressed condition were all adequate for memory application. Differences in signal output and location of the operating windows could be correlated with differences in film thickness and wire diameter. Pulse signal fluctuations were found to be directly proportional to magnetostriction fluctuations. There were great differences observed in the behavior of the samples under stressed conditions. These differences were shown to arise from differences in the local fluctuations in magnetostriction, the modulus and diameter of the substrate, and differences in the metallurgical and magnetic structure of the permalloy film. Accelerated aging showed 2:1 differences in rate between some samples."
"The observed ringing voltages in core memory systems depend on the frequency and the width of the pulsed current inputs. The pulse-width dependence results in maxima and minima, and the frequency dependence also results in maxima and minima in the peak amplitude of the ringing voltages. These phenomena have been examined and analyzed by a superposition of waves excited by fields due to the rise time and the fall time of all pulsed current inputs. The results show that a proper choice of the current width can be helpful in canceling the ringing voltages in the core memory systems."
"The application of statistical methods to the study of technical steels is described and a statistical amplitude distribution function for the magnetization discontinuities is presented, making use of the correlation between the amplitudes observed and the structure of the material. It is shown by experimental measurements that the optically measured grain size distribution of fine-grain low-carbon steel correlates closely over a wide range with the distribution of the pulse heights measured. The results of previously performed measurements have been investigated statistically using a multichannel analyser, and these pulses are shown to obey Weibull's distribution. The physical characteristics of the distribution function of the magnetic discontinuities and its computed parameters are discussed."
"A new surface transducer is described for generating and detecting magnetic field transients or magnetization discontinuities in ferromagnetic materials [8]. The sensing is based on searching for transients of the magnetic potentials which would be likely to occur on the surface of the specimen. A coil core of high-frequency ferrite is used for this. The sensor theory presented shows the coaxial geometry of the coil core to be that which is more practicable for limiting detection to a compact volume of the specimen to be analyzed. The fundamental noise and disturbance analyses performed show adequate margins for wideband noise and external stray field disturbances. The transducer electronics for generating the varying external magnetic field in the specimen and for detecting the occurring field transients are described with a view to the optimization of the electrical circuits, and the resulting specifications are discussed. The surface transducer constructed is widely applicable for studying the magnetization characteristics of different ferromagnetics nondestructively in conjunction with stochastic-ergodic analyzers such as a pulse-height analyzer or a digital correlator through a punch-tape recorder or in on-line connection with a computer [7]."
"Domain wall velocities are measured for 2700 Å and 2200 Å thick Permalloy films of several coercive forces. The velocity-drive field curves are characterized by two mobilities, as often reported. It is found that these low- and high-field mobilities are strongly affected by coercive force of the films. The low-field mobility is nearly constant for low-coercive-force films, and decreases rapidly with increasing coercive force. The high-field mobility is inversely proportional to the coercive force. The measured results suggest that the nonlinear dependence of wall velocity on drive field would disappear in a zero-coercive-force film. None of the mechanisms proposed up to now can explain this behavior of wall velocity in Permalloy films. The nonlinearity is attributed to the transition of material inhomogeneities from pinning centers in low field to dissipation centers in high field."
"A new method is reported for observing the in-plane component of magnetic structure in stripe domain films. Stripe domain films act as a Faraday-effect diffraction grating, and deflect light beams in a way reminiscent of electrons being deflected by the Lorentz force in a magnetic thin film. The direction of the stripes is that of the local in-plane magnetization vector. Thus the angle of deflection is perpendicular to the local in-plane magnetization, as is the case for Lorentz deflection. Micrographs are presented demonstrating that with a displaced aperture one can perform with light the analogues of the two modes of Lorentz microscopy: light-field microscopy in the defocused mode and dark-field microscopy with light normal to the film plane. In the defocused mode, walls appear as either bright streaks or dark streaks; if one focuses on the opposite side of the film the bright walls become dark and vice-versa. In the dark-field mode the contrast of the dark regions and the bright regions can be reversed by moving the aperture."
"The movement of an individual Bloch wall in a single-crystal picture frame of silicon iron was studied. By using an electronic apparatus the wall velocity was held constant during the magnetization reversal. It was possible to control the wall velocity down to 10-2mm/s. Even at these low velocities the relationship between the wall velocityvand the driving magnetic fieldHis precisely linear:v = const . (H-H_{0}). This is to be expected under the given experimental conditiondB/dt = const."
"In solid ferromagnetic parts of magnetic circuits, eddy currents occur during changes of the magnetic flux. Magnetic circuits of real devices may often be decomposed into parts having approximately rectangular or circler cross sections. As the solutions for phenomena in infinite configurations of such cross sections are known, we can use these for solving phenomena in more complicated arrangements. The method described in this paper is based on the use of Duhamel's integral. This method enables one to solve phenomena in such magnetic circuits, which are composed of both parts made of solid ferromagnetic materials and parts made of materials in which no eddy currents may occur. The method is convenient for transient phenomena but may also be used for cases with periodic non-sinusoidal exciting currents. Some examples are given."
"Two types of magnetic bubble generators suitable for a field-access bubble memory have been tested at 1.00 kHz bit rate at in-plane rotating fields above 15 Oe. The bias field margins of the generators at 30 Oe rotating field are equal to or greater than those of loop propagation. Both designs are based on the principle of stretching and cutting seed bubbles circulating around a Permalloy disk. Functions of stretching, cutting and transferring in the generator sequence are accomplished either with Permalloy elements or pulsed current conductors. The operating conditions of the generators in terms of current pulse amplitudes, widths and phase angles are presented. Among the two designs, namely Permalloy-stretch and conductor-stretch generators, the latter has a wider phase-angle margin."
"AnXband microwave filter consisting of two microwave cavities attached and orthogonal to each other with a YIG-GGG-YIG sample in a sandwich configuration has been designed and tested. Normally the two cavities do not couple electromagnetically to each other, but do couple through the sandwich configuration. The sandwich configuration is placed in between the two cavities so that there is one YIG film in each cavity. The amount of coupling can be varied by: (1) the magnitude of the static field,|\\overrightarrow{H}|, and (2) the angle between\\overrightarrow{H}and the film surface. The parallel layering of the two YIG films is essential in the improved performance of the microwave filter."
"The magnetic force of attraction between a recording surface and magnetic particles (the \"developer\" or \"toner\") is analyzed. The recording medium is assumed to be magnetically hard, the toner particles to be magnetically soft. The distribution of recording magnetization is taken to be periodic in the interior of an image area and uniform in an image free area. The toner particles are assumed to be part magnetic, part nonmagnetic material. In most of the calculations it is assumed that the magnetic susceptibility of the toner particles is small compared to unity. In the interior of an image area the force density has primarily a component perpendicular to the recording plane. This component decreases exponentially with distance from the recording plane, if the distribution of magnetization is sinusoidal. Near the edge of an image area the force density also has a tangential component, but this is generally smaller than the normal component. For toner particles with similar internal structure the force per unit mass always decreases with increasing particle size. Considered as a function of recording wavelength (at constant particle size) it shows a maximum at a wavelength comparable to the particle diameter.The force acting on a small particle (\\simeq 10\\mum) in the immediate vicinity of the recording surface can be several hundred times the force of gravity. The implications of these results in regard to color printing are discussed."
"It is shown by theoretical analysis that domain walls can support two different types of waves denoted as \"magnetostatic interface waves\" and \"wall displacement waves\". The magnetostatic interface waves are similar in character to magnetostatic surface waves. The wall displacement waves are analogous to displacement waves on strings and to capillary waves on the surface of liquids, Dispersion relations are derived for both types of waves. The displacement waves are approximately dispersion free at high wavenumbers. At low wavenumbers their dispersion diagram reflects the incipient instability of the straight domain wall against sinusoidal displacement, which occurs as the field gradient is reduced."
"When subjected to dynamic excitation at 50 Hz with sinusoidal field intensity, the power loss per unit volume, coercive force and remanent flux density of square-section specimens of Alcomax III were found to be functions of specimen size. At fixed excitation the coercive force increased and the remanent flux density decreased both as linear functions of specimen section side dimension. Loss per unit volume at low field intensities decreased as specimen size increased and was less than that calculated from the staticB/Hloops. With high field intensities the loss per unit volume increased with increase of specimen size and was in excess of that predicted by the staticB/Hloops."
"Domain wall motion in vacuum-deposited 1200 Å- 2000 Å-thick NiFe and NiFeCo films, excited by a 0.5 ns rise time/200 ns fall time hard-axis pulse field with an easy-axis dc field, is examined with regard to coercive force, easy-axis bias, and low-frequency creep results. Both NiFe and NiFeCo films have the same threshold field characteristics despite large differences in properties. The magnitude of the hard-axis pulse field necessary to cause creep increases with increasing difference between wall coercive force and easy-axis bias. Furthermore, the average creep displacement, for a given hard-axis pulse field magnitude, versus the easy-axis bias field normalized by wall coercive force results in almost identical curves for both NiFe and NiFeCo films except for a shift related to the threshold field. This result is consistent with previous low-frequency creep data and implies that the basic mechanism of low- and high-frequency creep may be closely related. The direction of the basic wall motion depends on the spin polarity in the wall and the durection of the hard-axis pulsed field. Motion in a direction opposite to the basic motion may be produced by an esay-axis bias field of sufficient magnitude but less than then wall coercive force, which is a new and significant result. A theory based on the dynamic torque equation and nonconservative spring coercive force model has been developed to explain the high-frequency creep phenomenon. This theory qualitatively predicts the observed experimental results very well."
"This program, Axifield, is used to calculate the on-axis magnetic field of a coaxial array of three or less air-core solenoids using BASIC (General Electric Mark 111 version)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A tentative explanation of some physical, magnetic, and mechanical properties in magnetically soft or semihard Fe-Co-V alloys is proposed in the light of present knowledge of their structural features. On account of important discrepancies, it is felt that metastable equilibrium diagrams, which are of greater significance for practical purposes, should be confirmed, and it would be of interest to redraw some parts of them with greater precision."
"A simple technique of measuring the dynamic magnetostriction in silicon-iron using displacement transducers is discussed. The importance of stress and harmonics of magnetostriction is shown by considering the effects of improving the stress sensitivity of steel and reducing core vibration by a suitable bonding technique which can also reduce transformer noise."
"Measurements of power loss have been made on individual grains in polycrystalline specimens of commercial 3% grain-oriented silicon-iron under longitudinal and transverse ac magnetization and rotational flux conditions. The domain configurations have also been observed using a stroboscopic Kerr magnetic-optic apparatus. The effect of longitudinal stress and dc bias fields on the domain patterns and power loss under these ac magnetization conditions has also been investigated. It can be concluded that the highest power loss occurs under pure rotational flux conditions and that the application of longitudinal compressive stress increases the power loss, but to a lesser extent when a transverse ac flux is present. The application of a longitudinal dc field increases the power loss for all ac magnetizing conditions, and it has been observed that a longitudinal tensile stress has the opposite effect on the domain configuration to the application of a transverse dc field."
"Rotational hysteresis loss has been measured on small discs of approximately 4% silicon-iron single crystal with"
"The magnetic requirements of differential transformers used in ground fault interrupters (GFI) for the sensing of 5 mA ground faults over the temperature range from -35°C to +66°C have been established. Ring laminations made of vacuum-melted permalloy and annealed so that the magnetocrystalline anisotropyK_{1} \\sim 0just above the maximum operating temperature meet these requirements. Such heat treatment will produce rings with low remanence in which the low-flux-density permeability is stable with temperature and changes little from the demagnetized to the remanent state. The processing of rings and the influence of impurities are briefly discussed."
 "A new method which eliminates some disadvantages of the Epstein method has been developed for the rapid measurement of core losses and permeabilities at 50 or 60 Hz of single-sheet specimens. It is shown that the instrument has the following performance: 1) good correlation of the measured value with Epstein testing, 2) high stability, 3) simplicity of operation, and 4) use of a wide single-sheet specimen."
"The well-known equation for the force between two parallel current-carrying conductors is used to show a new application of relativistic principles. The force is considered to to arise from an unbalanced electrostatic interaction between sliding line charges that model current flow. Although the drift velocity of electrons in conductors is extremely slow, the relativistic increase in apparent charge density can account for the force per meter."
"The economic design of large turbo-alternators is greatly affected by the properties of the soft magnetic materials available for building them. The saturation magnetization of the stator iron effectively determines the power output of a machine of given physical size. Losses in the iron waste power, and so must be minimized, while increasing the depth of a stator core, to reduce losses, leads to increased transportation costs. Localized loss concentrations, particularly in the end region, can cause operational difficulties; the severity of the associated 'hot spots' depends not only on the electro-magnetic properties of the iron but on the thermal properties as well. Mechanical rigidity of the assembled core is also important; magnetically favorable materials might be rejected by a designer if too flexible."
"The present paper investigates the mechanism governing the coercive field in polycrystalline wires of Fe-Ni with 72% Ni, plastically deformed. Experimental results on the temperature dependence of the coercive field are reported, both when an external stress equal to the flow-stress is applied to samples and, successively, when it is released. The experiments are compared to the theoretical models based on the coherent rotation and mobility of the domain walls."
"Grain-oriented 3% Si-Fe strips were plastically strained up to\\epsilon = 3%. The frequency spectrumE(f)of the Barkhausen noise was measured. FromE(O)a mean Barkhausen volume veffis calculated. The noise and veffare diminished after plastic deformation mainly already in the region\\epsilon < 0.1%, where the coercive field remains still constant, veffis related to a mean irreversible susceptibility, which is mainly determined by the hysteresis loop. By measurements of the correlation of the flux changes along the specimen a mean length of the Barkhausen volumes was obtained. Its diminution mainly causes the diminution of veff. The connection of the results with changes of the domain and dislocation structure is discussed."
"In R-Fe compounds, the magnetic properties are mainly determined by the Fe-Fe interatomic distances and the number of Fe nearest neighbors. Below the ordering temperatures, the R2Fe17compounds are generally ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic colinear. The compounds with rare earth ions of small atomic radii, Ce2Fe17, Tm2Fe17, and Lu2Fe17, are exceptions; they are helimagnetic. At low temperatures they exhibit a transition either to a fan spin or to a ferrimagnetic colinear configuration. For all compounds, a negative thermal expansion is observed below their ordering temperatures. Negative interactions occuring mainly in the substitution zones are thus deduced. Varying strongly with distances, they lead to the observed anomalous thermal expansion, and being largest in the compounds with the shortest Fe-Fe distances, their helimagnetic structure is explained."
"The subject of the reported work is the problems connected with the irreversible elementary magnetization processes, registered in the form of Barkhausen jumps, as well as the problems connected with the irreversible changes of the macroscopic magnetization of a ferromagnet in the process of the consecutive asymmetrical magnetization reversal and in the process of the periodic application of mechanical stresses."
"To specify a core for use as a power pulse transformer or pulse reactor it is necessary to develop a test method closely related to the operating conditions in a resetting line modulator. The important magnetic pulse properties for both applications are given, and the apparatus used to measure them described."
"An attempt has been made to equate quantitatively the coercive force as a function of the grain size and the concentration of nonmagnetic inclusions. It was found that the coercive force Hcof recrystallized 47.5% nickel-iron can be completely described, independent of the final anneal temperature, by the grain size dKand the inclusion content NF. Only nonmagnetic inclusions of sub-micron size (0.02- 0.5 μm) were found to be of significance. A definite correlation between the coercive force of 47.5% nickel-iron and those inclusions visible using an optical microscope (> 1μm) was not observed. Furthermore, there was no clear dependence of the coercive force on the sulfur and oxygen content. The grain size term HcKwas found to be in good agreement with the theory of A. Mager [1]. Surprisingly, there was no difference between the low-angle grain boundaries of strip with cube texture and the large-angle grain boundaries of un-textured strip with respect to HcK."
"Conventional magnetic separation devices are widely used for the removal of tramp iron from a variety of feed materials and for the beneficiation of ferrous ores. These devices for separation of strongly magnetic materials employ a variety of mechanical designs. Recently developed high gradient magnetic separation devices extend the useful application of magnetic separation to very weakly magnetic materials of small particle size. Potential applications of these new devices in pollution control, chemical processing, and the benefication of nonferrous low grade ores is indicated. The principle of operation of magnetic separation devices is the interaction between magnetic forces and competing gravitational, hydrodynamic, and interparticle forces within the magnetic separator. Without resort to a detailed analysis of the separation process, an understanding of the characteristics of magnetic separators is possible by consideration of a simple force-balance model. Descriptions of the conventional grate, drum and belt magnetic separators, laboratory magnetic separators, and several high gradient devices are given to illustrate the devices of major commercial importance and to illustrate the physical principles of magnetic separation."
"A new grain-oriented silicon steel with a higher degree of grain orientation than usually obtainable by known conventional procedures was developed. The new material (HI-B) has made large improvements in core loss and magnetostriction characteristics by effects due to surface coating that are more remarkable with a higher degree of grain orientation. HI-B is 2-3 grade better than today's conventional products. Furthermore, there will be the possibility of improvement by 1-2 grade in the near future. HI-B has lower linear magnetostriction as compared to conventional material and is less sensitive to stress in spite of superior magnetic properties. Actual transformers made from HI-B materials have improved transformer characteristics such as core loss, exciting VA, and noise, reflecting the magnetic properties of materials."
"Magnetic domain observations have been used to clarify the relationship between metallurgical structure and the core loss, permeability, and magnetostriction of grain-oriented 3% Si-Fe. Both the prediction of domain structures based on anisotropy, magnetostatics, stress, etc., and the various methods of making domain observations are reviewed. Both static and dynamic domain structures are shown and used to illustrate the relationships among domain structure, metallurgical structure, and magnetic properties. Core losses are shown to depend on the domain wall spacing and mobility, which in turn are controlled by grain size, stress, and defect structure. The high field permeability (BatH = 10Oe) is related to the amount of flux closure structure present, which is determined by the misorientation of the grains in the material. Magnetostriction is caused entirely by the motion of 90° domain walls which are introduced during the formation of flux closure structure and by residual or applied stress."
"58-percent Ni-Fe alloys have been investigated. It was found that the magnetic properties of the alloys depend on the whole chemical composition: matrix + alloying + impurity. The amount of impurities may be influenced deliberately by a proper selection of the atmosphere, temperature and time of the heat treatment. The effect of magnetic annealing was also investigated. Approximately linear relationship was found between the induced anisotropy constant and the suitably weighted average of oxygen and carbon contents. Our measurements suggest that the total amount of impurities in interstitial solid solution has an influence on value of the induced anisotropy constant."
"The effect of manganese content and the baking temperature on the magnetic properties of Mumetal (76% Ni, 2% Cr, 5% Cu, bal. Fe) especially on the initial permeability has been studied. The most suitable combination was found for a manganese content of 0.3 to 0.5% at the baking temperature of 500 to 550°C."
"Small additions of Si, Al, Ge... improve the magnetic properties of silicon-iron alloys. Goss-textured silicon iron with aluminum addition up to 2 wt% was produced by vapor deposition and subsequent diffusional annealing. After suitable treatment the total losses were reduced by about 12%."
"Iron-carbon alloys with bcc structure were prepared in different gas mixtures by gas-carburizing. Special care was taken in order to achieve homogeneous carbon distribution. Viscosity field and anisotropy field measurements were made on samples containing different amount of carbon interstitials to test the theoretical relationship between the viscosity field and induced anisotropy."
"The magnetic aftereffect of steels of technical purity containing C and N interstitials was calculated supposing a Snoek-type relaxation and the additivity of the two aftereffects. Some suggestions are made about the improvement of this approximation. The magnetic aftereffect of quenched and aged low-alloyed steels was measured. The ratio N/C after quench can be qualitatively determined from the shape of the curves of the aftereffect. The effect of aging (the change of the amplitude of the aftereffect because of the change of C/N and C + N) can be understood approximately on this basis."
"Ferromagnetic domain structures of (110) disks. It is shown that near the 30 per cent Ni concentration, the magnetic hyperfine field at the Fe nuclei-Bn, determined by Mössbauer measurements, decreases faster with Ni content than the spontaneous magnetization. Using theoretical results about the origin of Bn, this effect can be explained by considering the dependence of the lattice parameter on the Ni content."
"Lorentz microscopic techniques were used to examine the structure and the behavior of saw-tooth head-on domain walls under external stimuli. New experimental techniques were developed for this investigation. Head-on walls were formed and manipulated, both magnetically and mechanically, in situ under an electron microscope. The microscopic structure of the head-on walls in films ∼250 Å thick was cross-tie in nature, and the width of the domain wall was\\sim15 \\mum. The behavior of the head-on wall under external stimuli was found to be independent of the saw-tooth amplitude, which can be varied from microns to millimeters in a given film."
"The Inverse Wiedemann Effect is examined in the absence of any coincident external source of magnetic field. The induced axial magnetization arises from the interaction of torsional strain and remanent circular magnetization. The effect is found to be highly structure sensitive and a clear indicator of the magnitude and distribution of the circular remanence. Variations with applied strain continue at all strain levels through fracture. Diverse hysteresis effects are demonstrated with strain relaxation and reversal. The effect has varying degrees of stability under conditions of cyclic strain reversals. The experimental data are shown to be consistent with interpretations based on domain theory. The axial magnetization as a function of unit shear strain is shown to be recoverable from data acquired with solid specimens, the use of which is defended."
"A mathematical model is developed to define the nonlinear permeability of magnetic cores when eddy-current effects are negligible. The model is suitable for both numerical analysis by computer and for noncomputer studies of magnetic applications. The model has three basic flux-changing modes. These are 1) a switching mode resulting from irreversible domain-wall motion, 2) an elastic mode resulting from reversible domain-wall motion, and 3) an elastic mode resulting from domain rotation. All modes are defined by normal statistical distributions of permeability. The model is semi-empirical, that is, it results from a judicious combination of domain theory and measurable material properties such as incremental permeability and B-H characteristics. It is believed applicable to many nonconstricted loop materials and predicts the nonlinear characteristics of interest to magnetic material users. This is a dynamic model that depends on memory at field reversal to predict subsequent flux changes. This one model has good accuracy for field changes of any magnitude of either cyclic or pulse excitation."
"The present analysis is concerned with the determination of the electromagnetic field and losses in a cylinder of ferromagnetic material. The method consists of finding a linear solution for the diffusion equation governing theHfield and then applying the method of variation of parameters to take the nonlinearity into account. The application of the method of averaging reduces the problem to the solution of two first-order ordinary differential equations governing the amplitude and phase variations with depth. The equation governing the averaged phase is readily integrable, while that governing the averaged amplitude is integrated numerically. The results are in excellent agreement with experimental data and with finite-difference numerical solutions."
"The most common type of joint in large single-phase transformer cores is the 45° mitred overlap, but also important in smaller cores is the simpler butt and lap joint. The localized power loss and flux distribution has been measured in these two types of joint built from the same size and type of gain-oriented silicon-iron laminations. In both joints, the localized loss rose to double the nominal limb loss in some areas due to the presence of normal flux or rotational flux. The rotational flux occuring mainly in the butt and lap joint caused it to be the less efficient joint. The butt and lap joint was 18% less efficient than the mitred overlap joint at 1.5 T (50 Hz) built in the cores with 15-cm wide laminations."
"The microscopic properties of Invar are discussed in the framework of a generalization of the Landau theory. They are consistent with the R.J. Weiss hypothesis of a first order local transition about 29% of nickel and also the observation of a hysteresis in pulsed field experiments at 77 K."
"The pressure derivative of the Curie temperature, the compressibility, and the thermal expansion of several representative members of the group ofR-Co andR-Fe intermetallics (Rstands for rare-earth elements Y, Th, and in one case Zr) has been studied. The results derived for the volume dependence of Tcagree rather well with the relation (d \\ln T_{c})/(d \\ln V) = a+b/T_{c}^{2}in which, for both series of compounds (Co and Fe), the constant a equals about -5/3. This result favors an interpretation of the magnetic properties of these compounds in terms of the collective electron model rather than one in terms of localized moments. For some compounds the thermal expansion above room temperature has been studied. A considerable reduction of the thermal expansion has been observed near Tcfor those compounds for whichdT_{c}/dpis large and negative (invar effect)."
"The phenomenology and atomic origins of magnetocrystalline anisotropy are reviewed, and the experimental data are summarized for the spinel ferrites, garnets, metals of the 3d and 4f transition series, and some selected rare earth compounds. Only intrinsic magnetocrystalline anisotropy is covered, and attention is principally confined to single-crystal results. Antiferromagnetic materials have been omitted."
"The thermal fluctuation aftereffect model introduced by Fulcomer and Charap (J. Appl. Phys., vol. 42, pp. 4190-4199, October 1972) to explain steady-state hysteresis loops of oxidized magnetic thin films at low temperatures is extended. Interactions among the oxide particles are considered to explain phenomena that depend on magnetic history; e.g., initial contraction of the hysteresis loop and \"slow wall motion\" in constant applied magnetic field. The model is reduced to a computer calculation of film switching fields for arrays of interacting oxide particles coupled to the film. Reasonable agreement with experimental results is obtained for calculations related to the temperature range near that at which loop displacement first appears."
"Macroscopic force density and stress tensor expressions recently proposed for soft polarizable fluids are rearranged to give an energy-based formulation which is divorced from association with a particular molecular model. The recent work is thus shown to be in agreement with approaches put forward in Germany early in the century and to yield naturally as a special case the stress system of Helmholtz for linear fluids."
"This paper describes magnetic and metallographic properties of rare-earth-cobalt alloys of (Sm, Ce) (Co, Fe, Cu)z(5 \\lsim z \\lsim 8.5). Some alloy compositions exhibit anomalously large coercive forces and have excellent potential for permanent-magnet application. The composition Sm0.75Ce0.25(Co0.81Fe0.04Cu0.15)7.2shows a maximum energy product of 20.2 MG Oe, which is the highest among the compositions studied. Most alloys exist in the CaCu5-type crystal structure although some show a few of very weak superlattice lines characteristic of hexagonal Th2Ni17. When aged at about 960°C, the alloys show another phase in addition to the aforementioned structures."
"Secondary recrystallization was observed in 0.25mm thick dysprosium sheet having final cold reductions in the range of 40-60% prior to annealing at 1150°C in a dry helium atmosphere. X-ray and etch-pit studies revealed a predominant (0001)[10\\bar{1}0] secondary recrystallized texture. Magnetization curves at 4.2 K and 77 K were in good agreement with (0001)[10\\bar{1}0] single crystal magnetization curves. Coercivity measured from a peak induction of 3.1 T was 1.9 × 103A/m at 77K, but increased to 16 × 103A/m at 4.2K measured from a peak induction of 3.3 T. Square loop behavior was observed at 4.2 K, whereas low ratios of remanent magnetization to tip magnetization were observed at 77 K. The magnetization behavior is explained by domain models consistent with the single crystal magnetization curves, the temperature dependency of the (0001) magnetocrystalline anisotropy, and Egami's concept of an intrinsic wall coercivity in dysprosium at temperatures near 0 K."
"Hexagonal ferrite is used for a circulator at mm-wave frequencies. No external magnet is needed. The center frequency is 73.5 GHz, the bandwidth over which the isolation is greater than 20 dB is 2.4 GHz, and the insertion loss is 1.1 dB at the center frequency. The tensor permeability in a strong uniaxial field is determined. The dependence of the circulator bandwidth on an applied field is determined to show that the large uniaxial field of hexagonal ferrite contributes to the wideband performance at mm-wave frequencies."
"The ratio of the rotating hysteresis loss to alternating hysteresis lossW_{r}/W_{h}is examined as a function of the magnetic field for various ferrimagnetic powders dispersed in a nonmagnetic matrix. A comparison of theW_{r}/W_{h}vsHbehavior for single-domain particles with that of multidomain particles is made. The influence of the particle alignment in the matrix is also examined. The results obtained for the single-domain particle assemblies are explained on the basis of the \"chain-of-spheres\" model with fanning."
 "The power loss of transformer cores can still be considerably reduced by improved joint design based on new knowledge of the localized flux distribution, both in the corners and in the limbs. Rotational flux has been measured in the T-joints of experimental cores, and it has been found to cause localized high loss regions dependent on the joint design. Circulating harmonic fluxes have been found in individual laminations in the limbs of three-phase cores. The path of the harmonics is independent of joint design although their magnitudes are dependent. Circulating 3rd harmonics as large as 0.3 T have been found in a core magnetized sinusoidally at 1.6 T. These cause additional losses calculated to be 20% of the nominal core loss, and great savings would be possible if the circulating harmonics could be reduced or eliminated."
"An improved method has been developed for measuring the magnetization of steel with great accuracy up to saturation. With toroidal samples it is not possible to reach the necessary field strength. Ellipsoidal samples are used, for which the magnetizing factor can be calculated exactly. The specimens are 200 mm long, have a maximum diameter of 10 mm, and are shaped accurately to within 0.01 mm. With this method magnetization curves can be obtained up to 105A/m with an accuracy of better than 1%."
"The results are reported of some Mössbauer experiments on the α phase of FeNi alloys around 30% Ni, in which a partial\\gamma\\rightarrow\\alphatransformation occurred. The experiments, performed on vacuum melted alloys prepared with special care to obtain very homogeneous solid solutions, show significant broadening of the lines when partial martensitic transformation is produced by cooling to low temperatures. These effects can be explained by the presence of very strong internal stresses associated with the partial transformation. The corresponding form of theHvs.Tcurves is in agreement with the observed dispersion of the molecular fieldH."
"An analysis of magnetic fields between two sheets in a Watson magnet configuration and characterized by constant permeability is made. The results may be applied to the problem of permanent magnet biasing of magnetic bubble domain devices. It is found that the field uniformity between the sheets, apart from edge effects, may be expressed in terms of a characteristic distance that is a function of the sheet reluctance and the sheet spacing."
"The aim of this study is to relate the magnetocrystalline anisotropy at saturation to the texture function for a low-carbon steel. The texture has been calculated by expanding the direct pole figures as a series of spherical harmonics. This quantitative determination of textures permits one to calculate a theoretical curve of the variations of the torque in the rolling plane. These calculations are compared with the experimental curve."
"Several recording systems now operate at 106bits per square inch; their performance is partly governed by mechanical defects. The efficiency of systems without such defects would be determined by the signal-to-noise ratio. We show that reliable operation at 107bits per square inch is then possible and this, for example, might make tape-area-efficient broadcast-quality digital video recorders feasible. The ultimate densities given by information theory are demonstrated to be in the range 108- 109bits per square inch."
"The Barkhausen noise power spectrum was investigated on laminated polycrystalline toroids of Fe and 4% SiFe as a function of sample thickness; that is, of surface-to-volume ratio. Upon decreasing the thickness strong variations of spectrum shape are observed-the cut-off frequency increases and the spectral density drops in the very-low-frequency range. On the other hand, only negligible variations of static magnetic properties are observed. According to a recent theory, the results are explained assuming that a change of thickness directly affects the number of elementary pulses clustering into a large Barkhausen discontinuity. The calculated variations of the spectrum intensity and cut-off frequency are in good agreement with the experimental results."
"Measurements of total power loss and domain-wall spacing have been made on individual grains in polycrystalline specimens of commercial grain-oriented 3% silicon-iron material. The loss-per-cycle against frequency characteristic of a grain is found to consist of discrete linear portions, which correspond to different domain-wall spacings. These changes in domain pattern result in a lower value of static hysteresis loss than expected and, therefore, a larger proportion of the total power loss must be attributed to the anomalous loss. From domain observations, it is concluded that a part of the anomalous loss is due to nonuniform flux distribution in the material and the overloading of the well-oriented grains."
"A general equation for the axial field at any point on the axis due to a truncated conical pole tip magnetized uniformly to saturation is derived in terms of the various distances and linear dimensions. The advantage of this expression over the one involving the trigonometric ratios of the semi-angles is discussed briefly."
"The behavior of the BIAX device as an analog storage element is presented. BIAX, which is used primarily as a digital computer memory device, is applied as an analog storage element by using discrete levels of the flux range available around the storage hole. It is predicted from simple theory assuming equivalent uniaxial anisotropy that the stored flux levels can be read nondestructively by detecting the fundamental frequency component of induced voltage under the application of a dc bias and a sinusoidal readout magnetic field, and that the voltage is proportional to the flux levels and read-out magnetic fields. These characteristics are experimentally verified. The accuracies of readout with respect to the input-voltage-time integral and the stored flux levels are 14.6% and 2.1%, respectively. The drive frequency is in the range of 1 to 1000 kHz. The static and dynamic characteristics are improved with the ac bias field of high frequency. The element has the advantages of more than one bit per core site, large output levels, and high signal-to-noise ratio."
"High-field susceptibility of iron-nickel alloys over the entire concentration range has been measured at 4.2 K. The temperature dependence of high-field susceptibility of alloys containing 29.1 and 32.7 at % Ni has been investigated in the temperature range from 4.2 to 150 K. Anomalous temperature dependence of the susceptibility of the alloys investigated can be explained by the existence of an antiferromagnetic phase at low temperatures."
"Soft magnetic alloys that are now in practical use or under development in Japan are reviewed. In the field of Si-Fe alloys, the influence of various processing parameters, such as addition of elements, heat treatments, and alloy composition on the mechanical and the magnetic properties and recent developments in methods of measuring iron losses are described and discussed. As for Ni-Fe alloys, the effects of refining reagents or added elements adjusting the formation of the superlattice Ni3Fe on the magnetic properties are given. Finally systematic studies on the relation between degree of order and magnetic properties of Ni-Mn alloys are reviewed."
 "A dynamic iterative model is presented for the simulation of high bit density digital magnetic recording systems. In addition to the write head fringing field, the demagnetizing fields, and the image charge fields, the model considers an arbitrary write current waveform and a finite flux risetime for any coded pattern, a complete family of minor loops, the leading edge magnetization distribution, and cable and amplifier loading effects, in a continuous recording process. The novel treatment of complex head sensitivity functions and the utilization of complex Fourier transformation techniques for signal analysis yield results for arbitrary high bit density patterns that are in excellent agreement with experiment in absolute timing and signal amplitude."
"Stripe domains and bubble domains are observed in Gd-Co sputtered films. The domain patterns are different from one another for different preparation conditions. In this paper, preparation conditions and some properties of Gd-Co films, namely the domain pattern observed by the polar Kerr magneto-optic effect and the M-H loops measured by the Kerr and the Hall effect, are reported. The temperature dependence of the M-H loop is studied about the compensation temperature. The properties of Gd-Co sputtered films are discussed not only for bubble domain but also for thermomagnetic application."
"The magnetization reversal behavior for spots in high density digital recording is presented in this paper. Two specific cases are examined: (1) narrow track width or large number of tracks per unit width and (2) narrow bit width or large number of bits per unit length. It has been found that the hysteresis loops for the two cases are quite different in appearance. Existence of either positive or negative average dipolar interaction field between ferromagnetic particles in the recording medium is shown. Finally, the effects of variations in tape parameters such as size, shape and spacing of particles in the medium are discussed."
"Ti-substituted MnBi thin films have been prepared on glass substrates by a vacuum deposition technique, and studies of magnetic, magnetooptic, and thermomagnetic properties of the films have been made. The nominal composition range of Mn1-xTixBi was x=0.1 to 0.4. The films were well oriented with the c-axis perpendicular to the film plane. The Curie point of the quenched high temperature phase (qhtp) decreased with increasing Ti-concentration, but that of the low temperature phase (ltp) was not altered by Ti-doping. The best Kerr rotation obtained for the qhtp films with x=0.4 was 0.5 deg at 6328 Å. Both the Faraday and the Kerr rotation of the ltp and qhtp films decreased with increasing the Ti concentration. The time constant associated with the qhtp to ltp transformation was 103sec at 180°C for x=0.4. Curie point writing experiments with a helium-neon gas laser showed that the writing threshold of the qhtp film was about one third of that of the ltp film."
"A new multitrack head in which a single magnetic block is shared magnetically and mechanically with all head elements has been developed in order to achieve high track and bit density requirements in recording. Three models of experimental heads differing in structure and core material are compared for playback efficiency crosstalk, and track-pitch error. Extensive experimental data taken with magnetic drums and disks and the evaluation of error rates agree quite well with the calculated values obtained from an equivalent magnetic circuit. Our experiment has proven that one type which incorporates a single magnetic backplate has the advantage of greatly improved electromagnetic characteristics at high track densities over conventional types. Maximum track density capabilities of these heads are also discussed."
"Previous authors have used complex calculations to predict output from a given magnetic tape. This paper presents a simple technique supported by experimental data for predicting short wavelength output from any magnetic tape. An example is given to illustrate how the technique can be used for conditions other than those presented in this paper."
"The advantage of using iron particles rather than the traditional oxides for high density magnetic recording has long been recognized. Little information on the corrosion resistance of iron based tapes has been available. This paper examines, phenomenologically, the corrosion of iron particles in both powder and tape form. The superior retention of magnetic remanence and coercivity of properly formulated iron tapes compared with commercially available CrO2tapes after accelerated aging tests is interpreted in terms of corrosion mechanisms."
"A high coercive magnetic particle named AVILYN has been developed. This new particle is an acicular magnetic iron oxide on whose surface certain cobalt compounds have been adsorbed. The coercive force of the particles is determined by the amount of cobalt and other preparing conditions, and is controllable between 450 and 800 Oe. The particles display much improved thermal stability with respect to remanence and coercive force. The new video tape having a coercive force of 550 Oe is compatible with CrO2video tape in recording characteristics according to our measurement on a conventional VTR. The head wear rate of the tape is about one-fifth that of CrO2tape, and is almost the same as for conventional iron oxide tape. Tape demagnetization is not as serious as is in the case of cobalt-doped γ-Fe2O3tapes."
"Bubble domains in pulsed field gradients move at an angle to the direction of the gradient field. The magnitude of this skew angle is dependent on the wall structure of the domain. By placing the bubble domains in a two dimensional field well the bubbles may be constrained to move in an overall direction which is orthogonal to the gradient of the stimulating field. Measurements of the net orthogonal velocities of bubble domains have been made using a field well of this type. The velocities, which were measured as a function of the pulse width, proved to be much larger than predicted by the low field mobility for the material (Eu0.6Y2.4Ga1.1Fe3.9O12)."
"The excitation spectra of a hexagonal lattice of magnetic bubbles are calculated using the methods of lattice dynamics. The bubbles are allowed one internal zero-mode radial degree of freedom and two translational degrees of freedom of the center of mass resulting in three branches of free oscillation. The equations of motion, whose Fourier transform yields a third order secular determinant corresponding to two acoustical and one optical branch, are obtained from a Lagrangian with a Rayleigh dissipative function. The inter-bubble potential is approximated by that of a dipole-dipole interaction and restricted to nearest neighbors. The dispersion curves are found for the symmetry directions kxand ky. For a dense lattice with no coupling between the radial and translational degrees of freedom the optical and acoustical branches cross. The inclusion of coupling has drastic effects on the dispersion relationships. The acoustical branches consist of admixtures of translational and radial oscillations. Because of damping a critical wavenumber exists below which no real part of the frequency exists. Changes in the acoustical branches can be brought about by changing the external magnetic field."
"Transient dynamic bubble and stripe domain configurations in magnetic garnet materials (Y1.57Eu0.78Tm0.65Ga1.05Fe3.95O12) has been observed using a stroboscopic optical microscope capable of making a series of single exposure 10 nsec pictures of the dynamic domain configuration at various times during and after the application of a 3 μsec bias field pulse that reduces the bias field. Wave-like distortions are observed in the widening stripe after approximately 1.5 μsec of initial uniform widening. This random distortion continues to grow until the end of the pulse. During the relaxation the gross shape of the stripe continues to become more distorted for the next couple of microseconds after the end of the pulse as the stripe attempts to return to its original narrow state. Random protuberances are observed on the wall at times as long as 10 μsec after the end of the pulse. Bubble domains in both implanted and non-implanted samples exhibit distortions as they are expanded and during relaxation. For moderate pulse amplitude, the bubbles grow and become distorted after about 1 1/2 μsec and exhibit characteristic but highly distorted shapes by the end of the 3 μsec pulse. Upon termination of the pulse as the bubble attempts to relax back in a bias field very near bubble collapse, the bubble takes on extreme yet characteristic shapes during relaxation. In nonimplanted material, some bubbles are much less affected by the pulse than others and are considered \"harder\". Conversions from \"harder\" to \"softer\" and \"softer\" to \"harder\" can be seen to occur typically taking one pulse to become hard and a couple of pulses to become soft."
"Cu-rich CuyCr2Se4-zBrxspinels react with air according to CuyCr2Se4-zBrx+ (n/2) O2→Cuy-nCr2Se4-zBrx+ n CuO. By this reaction, the lattice constant aoof the spinels decreases and their Curie temperature Tcincreases. For example, a Cu1.03Cr2.00Se2.96Br0.96spinel with ao= 1.0444 nm and Tc= 216 K reacted with air to Cu0.87Cr2.00Se2.96Br0.96with ao= 1.0416 nm and Tc= 262 K. On the other hand, a Cu-deficient Cu0.78Cr2.00Se2.68Br1.15spinel with ao= 1.0405 nm and Tc= 212 K did not react with air. By this, contradictions in the literature concerning the stability of CuyCr2Se4-zBrxspinels in air are resolved."
"The exchange constant, A, for a magnetic bubble garnet is calculated using a ferrimagnetic molecular field model. This model predicts the temperature dependence of A for a given material as a function of Néel temperature and nonmagnetic ion substitution into the tetrahedral and octahedral sites of the garnet crystal lattice. Most of the available data for A from representative bubble garnets yields good agreement with the calculations. Approximate determination of A from the model should be useful for characterizing new magnetic bubble materials as a function of temperature."
"The influence of the coercive force, Hc, on domain growth in MnBi films is investigated on a local scale. It is found that for domain tip movement to occur, a critical domain width has to be exceeded. When Hcis in the same order of magnitude of the magnetostatic pressures, this critical width is restored in the final stripe domain width, which is considerably greater than the equilibrium domain width in the absence of Hc."
"Design considerations were researched in an effort to develop a digital magnetic recording medium and a miniature direct access drive. The resulting medium, known as a diskette, measures 200.2 millimeters square (8 inches) and weighs about 40 grams (1.4 ounces). It is easy to handle, store, and mail, and any record can be deleted or substituted. Also, it is low in cost and reusable."
"The phase transformation and magnetic properties of manganese bismuthide have been reinvestigated with single crystal samples of low temperature phase (LTP) and high temperature phase (HTP) in the quenched state (QHTP). It was established that the LTP and HTP are separate compounds with the chemical formulae MnBi and Mn1.08Bi respectively. The ferro-to-paramagnetic transition upon heating to 628 K and para-to-ferromagnetic transition upon cooling to 613 K correspond respectively to the phase decomposition of MnBi → Mn1.08Bi + Bi and Mn1.08Bi → MnBi + Mn. The effects of these transformations were also investigated in thin film specimens and the distribution of each phase in the thin films was determined. Magnetic properties of the LTP, HTP and QHTP obtained from the single crystals were compared to the previous data obtained from polycrystalline samples or thin films. For the QHTP single crystals, the saturation magnetization, Ms, at 4 K is 3.04 μBper Mn atom. This is 86% of the Msof the LTP. At 300 K we find Msto be 1.8 times larger than previously reported. The anisotropy energy K in the QHTP was found to be much larger than that of the LTP."
"The results of a study of the threshold fields necessary to initiate Néel wall motion when the magnetic field is applied at an angle to the easy axis of the thin film are presented in this paper. A model similar to those previously postulated is developed to carry out the usual minimization of energies. In carrying out the analysis, field dependent terms are separated from those that are not and the particular field dependencies are studied in detail. The formulation of the model and the results obtained are discussed in detail without including derivations which are available elsewhere. Experimental results are presented to support the model developed here."
"Gd-Co films which have uniaxial magnetic anisotropy perpendicular to the film plane are prepared by the rf-sputtering technique. The transverse Hall effect and the planar Hall effect are studied on these films. Results obtained show that the transverse Hall effect is much larger than the planar one in these films. It is also found that the extraordinary Hall effect plays a dominant role in the transverse Hall effect. At the compensation temperature the polarity of the Hall voltage is reversed. The hysteresis loop of the Hall characteristic corresponds to the M-H loop observed by the Kerr magneto-optic effect."
"The anisotropy in the spontaneous magnetoresistance of ferromagnetic metals can be used to monitor the magnetic fields of cylindrical domains and of magnetic recordings. Depending on which application is chosen, either the magnitude of the anisotropy effect must be optimized by itself, or in a suitable combination with the saturation magnetisation and thickness to account for the demagnetizing field and the thickness dependence of the resistivity. Ni(89)Fe(11) and Ni(70)Co(30) films are shown generally to be acceptable for device materials. Various magnetoresistance reading heads (MRH) have been fabricated and investigated. A MRH was built into the gap of a ferrite write head; minima and maxima were noted in the wavelength response that can be explained theoretically. A new source of noise was found to originate from variations of the heat flow between head and contacting tape. Its influence can be reduced by diminishing the excitation current or by increasing the thermal conductivity near the magneto-resistive material. For analog reading, the head is biased with a field of 50-100 Oe, which has a negligible influence on the recorded information. Track sensing and compensation of cross-talk and external noise are shown to be feasible."
"The exciting current and core loss properties of stacked EI transformer structures depend on the distribution of flux in each lamination. Although flux is uniformly distributed in a butt Joint stack, there is a nonuniform distribution of flux in a 1 × 1 stack. The analysis of flux distribution presented here is based on Ampere's law together with conservation of magnetic flux, and is not applicable if any portion of the core material saturates. The derived expressions for flux are combined with a simple expression for Epstein sample loss data to obtain models for transformer core loss and exciting ampere-turns which are useful for computer aided design and analysis. These models include the major effects of flux density, frequency, lamination geometry, and material properties. Comparisons of corresponding calculated and measured results indicate the reasonableness of the models."
"The paper describes the two types of parametric transformers referred to as the \"chain type\" and \"cross-winding type\". They are related in the sense that they have identical magnetic circuits, but they differ in their windings arrangement. These transformers utilize the principle of parametric oscillations to develop an output voltage and transfer energy from the input circuit to the output circuit without direct mutual coupling. The two types belong to two different categories in which the MMF's of the input and output circuits act either at right angle to one another (orthogonal) or along the same line (co-linear) in the common regions. The operation of each type is described by two simultaneous nonlinear differential equations and the magnetization characteristics which relate the MMF's and fluxes in the input and output sides of the transformer. The experimental results on a small unit show that the cross-winding type is more efficient and has a higher output to weight ratio than the chain type."
"A new approach, based on the magnetic vector potential, is developed for the solution of flux penetration and eddy current problems in nonlinear ferromagnetic materials. The model obtained for this diffusion problem is useful in the sinusoidal time varying cases, and can be extended to the general time varying cases. The model is applied to the problem of flux penetration and determination of losses in ferromagnetic bars used for starting and damping in large synchronous motors and generators. These machines are mostly found in hydro-electric pumped storage power stations. The results consist of real and reactive power losses, equivalent resistance and reactance, distribution of induced currents and flux penetration. A comparison of results with previous authors' work is given. Good agreement between experimental results and simulated ones is established concerning loss calculations. The developed method is best suited for use in cases involving complicated contours of ferromagnetic materials and general boundary conditions. Therefore, the method is useful in rotating machine applications."
"A system is described which permits controlled switching of large energies supplied by the 230 V dc generators available at the Francis Bitter National Magnet Laboratory. Such large energy sources are useful for generating magnetic fields approaching 400 kG for times ∼1 sec if suitable switching and magnet systems can be developed. Results of tests to date are summarized. Currents of ∼10 kA have been switched by an SCR bank into resistive and magnet loads in order to demonstrate feasibility. Quasistatic fields of 260 kG have been generated in a 2 cm i.d. copper solenoid precooled to liquid nitrogen temperatures."
"A description of the structures of R2Co17as layer structures is presented and possible stacking faults and dislocations involving the layer planes are described. The significance of the planar defects observed in R2Co17and structurally similar compounds and the effects of the various rare earth ion symmetries for the 2H, 1R, 4H, 5H and 6H(1) and 6H(2) possible modifications for R2Co17compounds on magnetic anisotropy and magnetostriction are discussed. Finally the possible influence of stacking faults on these properties is considered."
"The reflected light microscope with polarized light may be used to observe domain structures, grain orientations and textures in cast and sintered powder R-Co materials. Means for enhancing the optical contrast are described in a cast SmCo5-Sm2Co7binary alloy. The relative crystallographic orientation and precipitate shape in a cast SmCo5and Sm2Co17binary alloy is discussed. Finally, the observation of textures in sintered mischmetal-cobalt magnets is described, and the relationship between these observed textures and remanence in the magnet is illustrated."
"Demagnetization loop shapes for off-stoichiometric SmCo5magnets subjected to heat-treatment between 700°C and 900°C suggest that both domain wall nucleation and trapping mechanisms are operative. Results are interpreted under the assumption that the nucleation sites are peripheral Sm2Co17and that the principal trapping sites are Co vacancies generated in hyperstoichiometric, i.e. greater than 33.8 wt% Sm, SmCo5."
"Metallographic and microprobe analyses have been carried out on bulk SmCo5alloy and several series of SmCo5compacts. The phases present in SmCo5magnets and the disposition of these phases as a function of composition and heat treatment are reported. The results show that rapid and extensive interaction occurs between the sintering aid and the SmCo5grains during the sintering process. Studies of the homogenization process in SmCo5indicate that the hypostoichiometric alloy, i.e., less than 33.8 wt% Sm, is formed by Co pairs occupying Sm sites as originally hypothesized by Buschow and Van der Goot."
"The previous measurements of the first anisotropy constant, K1, of single crystal YCo5by Hoffer and Strnat were extended over a wider temperature range (4.2 to 900K) using their same sample. However, the measurements of magnetization parallel and perpendicular to the c-axis of the crystal were made using a vibrating sample magnetometer and values of the second anisotropy constant were also obtained. K1and K2at 296K were found to be 5.68 × 107and 1.74 × 107ergs/cm3respectively. The temperature dependence of K1and K2was investigated and it was found that the temperature dependence could be fitted to the theory of Carr3. The Curie temperature of YCo5was found to be 895K, in good agreement with Strnat and Hoffer, but in poor agreement with Tatsumoto et al."
"Permanent magnets have been used for several years in D.C. Motor Applications. The lack of high coercive force with high remanence has required magnets of large volumes to be used. With the advent of the high coercive force cobalt rare earth materials, it is now possible to use very thin magnets for motor applications. The purpose of this investigation was to produce radially oriented Co5Sm arc magnets having thickness as low as 0.13 cm and subtended angles greater than 60° by using a hot forming technique. Various fixturing and hot forming conditions were studied. The results of this work show that radially oriented arcs could be produced with subtended angles as large as 117° and circumferential lengths of 10.5 cm. Additional data indicates that no serious degradation in alignment or magnetic quality was encountered when bending the material slowly at temperatures above 1100°C."
"The longstanding IEEE definition of induction heating- \"the heating of a nominally conducting material in a varying electromagnetic field due to its internal losses\" is interpreted here as including processes in which these losses are associated with conducted, as well as induced, currents. During the past three decades, induction heating, utilizing induced currents, has grown into a multimillion dollar industry - heating for melting, forging, hardening, brazing, welding, and many more applications. Equipment ratings are from a few hundred watts to over 60000 KW, at frequencies ranging from 50 Hz to several MHz. More recently, a number of processes known generally as High Frequency Resistance Heating have received worldwide acceptance, especially in the tube and pipe welding fields. They employ the same electromagnetic phenomena to cause internal losses in nominally conducting material, but these losses are associated with current which is introduced through contacts. This paper describes these electromagnetic phenomena, and emphasizes the similarity of these commonly-called different processes."
"The electronic energy band structure and magnetic moment of the intermetallic compound SmCo5have been determined by a self-consistent spin-polarized APW method. The calculated magnetic moment is in good agreement with the measured value. The calculated energy bands show a striking similarity to those of pure Co. These results form the foundation of a theory of the electronic structure of all the RCo5- type intermetallic compounds of the same crystal structure."
"The effects of long-term air exposure at 25°, 150°, 200° and 250° C on the stability of the open-circuit remanence atB_{d}/H_{d}\\approx 1were studied. Magnets were prestabilized by heating at 150°-250° before room temperature aging, 50° above exposure level for the elevated-temperature tests, then they were exposed for periods of up to 8000 hours. Loss data for different operating temperatures and preheating conditions are reported. Preheating anticipates initial aging by thermally activated wall motion. This reduces aging losses at 25°C at least by a factor 2 to 4, at 150° by a factor 5-8. At operating temperatures above 200° the medium-term stability is strongly improved, but catastrophic losses set in after several 100 to 1000 hours. Prestabilized magnets show more uniform aging behavior than lots of samples tested without preheating. No significant differences were found between diepressed and isopressed magnets. Heating to at least 200°C and at least 50° above the use level for 2 hours is recommended for prestabilization."
"A technology which has been used to fabricate a 1024 bit bubble domain memory with micron dimensions is described. The process uses additive electroplating through photoresist masks to form the propagation patterns and conductors, and sputter etching to define the magnetoresistive sensor elements. Critical aspects of the process pertinent to both dimensional control and to preservation of the properties of existing magnetic material in the structure during subsequent processing are discussed. Results are cited indicating the applicability of these processes to submicron dimensions."
"A single-phase vertical-field bubble propagating circuit is described. High-speed bubble propagation along a single-conductor line is realized to give an oscillating bias field driven by a monopolar current pulse in the conductor to the magnetostatically trapped bubbles in ratch patterns. The relation between the pulse amplitude and the propagation distance of the bubble is analyzed. A two-way propagating circuit useful for the transfer gate is realized, based on the transverse motion of bubbles. Loop circuits, transfer gates, and a generator circuit as well as various shift registers have been designed and tested. The propagation speed of 1 MHz could be obtained under the applied current of 800 mA, using YFeO3crystal platelet of thickness 80μm, the conductor of width 30μm, and the ratch patterns of period 110μm. A structure of a major/minor loop organized memory circuit with a function of dynamic reallocation of data is proposed."
"The dependence of the operating bias range for T-bar and chevron propagation patterns upon the thickness of spacing layers, and also upon the thickness and 4 ΠMs of garnet films, is measured and discussed using a simple model neglecting the effects of bubble field. The potential well, which a bubble experiences under the Permalloy elements, is determined by the vertical component of the Permalloy field averaged along the domain wall and does not depend upon 4 ΠMs. The upper and lower thresholds of the bias range for quasistatic propagation are so treated as to be the bias fields which causes the critical diameter of the bubble to stretch across the pattern gaps or along the bars. The model neglecting the effects of the bubble field is believed to be sufficient to explain the experimental data."
"Classical Barkhausen effect measurements are used to determine rapid magnetization changes in small volume elements. Typically, one Barkhausen signal corresponds to a change in the magnetization orientation in the magnetic domain. Similarly, the rapid growth of a ferromagnetic phase from a nonferromagnetic matrix should lead to a Barkhausen type signal, since the signal in a pick up coil\\intVdtis a function only of the magnetization change with time. It was possible to follow the growth of ferromagnetic phases in TRIP steel with time resolutions of the order of 10-5sec, with transformation in volumes of 10-9cm3, if the volume transformation rate was of the order of 10-3cm3/sec, or larger."
"The authors present a steady state analysis of a magnetic frequency tripler without primary line filters. The purpose of the paper is to evaluate the effect of different iron magnetization characteristics upon, the performance of the device. The results of the analysis can be used as guidelines in the selection of iron in the design of large frequency triplers."
"The capstan-control system can induce tape vibrations in a magnetic tape drive. This paper describes an analytical model for predicting the motion of magnetic tape through a tape drive, including the structural dynamics of the tape and its interaction with the control system. The model includes all significant effects related to the tape and the tape path. The roles of the air bearings, the vacuum column, and the magnetic tape were evaluated by a series of experiments to measure the input mechanical impedance of tape in an actual tape path. These experiments and a derived lumped-mass analytical model showed that the vacuum column added two acoustical resonators to the tape path, that the air bearing added considerable damping, and that the Coulomb friction did not significantly affect the dynamics of the tape."
"In the application of magnetic separation procedures, ferrous and ferric hydroxide gels are proposed as magnetic seeding materials to remove many metal ions from waste water. Ferric hydroxide gel, which has been well known as an excellent scavenger, has been found to be strongly magnetic and almost amorphous. Inspection of Mössbauer spectra suggests that, in addition to adsorption, occlusion is responsible for the excellent scavenging effect of ferric hydroxide gel. Ferrous hydroxide has been found to be especially efficient for removing mercury from solution. A redox reaction occurs between mercuric and ferrous ions on the surface of ferrous hydroxide gel, resulting in the formation of metallic mercury and magnetite. Metallic mercury, adsorbed on the surface of the magnetite, is easily removed by magnetic separation."
"A small experimental bubble memory chip with the major-minor loop organization has been designed and tested under laboratory conditions. As distinct from the conventional current-controlled memories, the necessary functions are operated by a temporary change of rotation of the drive field. Using this method a design is possible for which in practice only one mask is needed. The transfer gates, used in the control elements, are discussed extensively as also are the generator- and annihilator-locks, which are necessary for chip selection. The specific properties of this memory are compared with those of a current-controlled memory."
"Analytical expressions describing the magnetization distribution, the demagnetizing field and the read signal of a single and a double magnetization transition are derived for the digital magnetic recording process. Under several simplifying assumptions these relations are exact solutions, including demagnetizing effects, of the basic equations governing the recording process. The influence of various parameters on the resulting magnetization and read signals are discussed. It is proved that the half pulse width of the read signal is proportional to(\\deltaM_{r}/H_{c})^{\\frac^{1}{2}}for large values of\\deltaM_{r}/H_{c}, where δ is the thickness, Mrthe remanent magnetization and Hcthe coercivity of the medium. Write head and read head medium separations appear only as a sum in the expressions for the read signal. Calculated half pulse widths show reasonable agreement with experimental data."
"An analytical model was developed to calculate the maximum obtainable track density for a given error rate with consideration of head fringing field, signal-to-noise ratio and data window. Positioning tolerances versus track width are examined as a function of these variables for a given track pitch."
"Experimental results of the thermomagnetic characteristics of temperature-sensitive magnetic cores, such as flux density, coercive force and rectangularity of hysteresis loop, are discussed in this paper. The flux-density-versus-temperature characteristic, which changes at constant rate over a wide temperature range, was obtained. It was found that this behavior was caused by fluctuations in the concentration of imperfections present in the sample. An irregular relation between temperature and coercive force was observed in the vicinity of the Curie point. This drastic increase of coercive force is qualitatively explained by Kersten's inclusion theory. Furthermore, the rectangularity of the hysteresis loop changes with temperature. In metal cores a slight increase of rectangularity was observed in the high-temperature region."
"The structure of integrated heads offers better possibilities of optimization than conventional heads. The length of the gap and the thickness of the pole tips can be optimized in order to obtain the best efficiency of the head during the writing process. This optimization relies on the magnetization distribution of a single transition. We will here study three transitions the separation of which is adjustable. The purpose of this paper is to show that the optimization of the write process is not always really convenient for high density recording. We use an iterative method the principle of which is identical to the one used for the calculation of a single transition. This method extended to three transitions reflects the magnetic history of the magnetization as faithfully as possible. During the computations, the magnetization varies on the major B-H loop or on the minor cycles taking into account the transition interactions and the demagnetizing fields. After the third position, the head is translated faraway. In order to understand better the method, a detailed diagram will be given. Results show us the density limitation of an integrated head with a given medium. In conclusion, this study shows that the pole tip thickness of integrated heads is an important parameter for magnetic peak-shift."
"Several well-known theoretical treatments of the properties of the fringing field from a magnetic recording head are shown to yield a non-zero dc flux response, which is physically impossible. This deficiency is due to the approximations in the models rather than mathematical error. Plausible long wavelength spectra may be derived from better models, but they are usually of great mathematical or computational difficulty. In this paper, a simple approximation is suggested which yields correctly the qualitative features of the whole spectrum. In conclusion, the topical case of narrow pole-tip-length heads is discussed."
"Amorphous electrodeposited Co-P and Co-Ni-P films (∼24 at.% P,≤ 26 at.% Ni) are ferromagnetic and have perpendicular easy-axis anisotropy, with anisotropy fields Hk= 2K/Mssmaller than 4πMs. Stripe and bubble-like, cylindrical domains have been observed in some of these films by Bitter techniques. Thickness dependence of the in-plane saturation field agrees with Murayama's [J. Phys. Soc. Japan 21, 2253 (1966)] micromagnetic calculation. The zero field stripe period is that expected for a parallel plate domain structure with flux closure."
"The problem of scaling down existing permalloy pattern designs to be compatible with materials supporting micron and submicron bubbles is examined with the aid of a magnetostatic energy model. Using the model it is shown that the minimum drive field requirements are in general proportional to the garnet Saturation magnetization Msindirectly as a result of the bubble-bubble interaction. Under special circumstances the minimum drive field requirements can be independent of Mssuch as for propagation around a disk. In such a case the margin for propagation is proportional to the in-plane rotating field resulting in characteristically different behavior than obtained for a typical propagation pattern."
"Recently, a new type of a parametrically excited power converter which is made by two C-cores rotated at 90° was proposed and called as Paraformer [1]. The novel characteristic of this device has been remarked as one of the important phenomena which permit to expand the new region of nonlinear magnetics [2], although the operation principles are not yet clearly understood. It is concluded from the present work that the performance characteristics of the bridge-core circuit which we designed are completely agreed with that of the Paraformer, and a novel characteristic of the Paraformer is generated by the bridge circuit. By using the symmetrical or the asymmetrical bridge-core circuit, it is possible to make not only a practical high efficient and high sensitive voltage regulator but also a power converter which can change the output frequency. Furthermore, a large capacity power converter can be achieved by constructing a bridge circuit with 3-5 separate reactors."
"A number of new domains and domain aggregates have been observed in LPE-films with an overall composition of (Y,La)3(Fe,Ga)5O12,and consist of sublayers with varying distribution of Ga over the octahedral and tetrahedral sites. The sublayers are separated by compensation planes. In this structure, bubbles with opposite sense of Faraday rotation (\"white\" and \"black\" bubbles) can exist simultaneously. Other observations include combinations of these bubbles, and a new type of attractive interaction between bubbles. A simple model and some calculations are given."
"Magnetic domain structure in epitaxial YIG films was investigated using Faraday effect and Bitter method. These experiments have shown complex structures of closure domains. The influence of in-plane magnetic fields and stresses on the magnetization position was measured. The observed variation was interpreted in the light of a simple theory involving anisotropy, magnetostriction and magnetostatic energies. A new determination of the induced stress was inferred from this study, X-ray experiments were also performed. Interfacial dislocations have been observed which are consistent with the rather small value found for the stress."
"Requirements for microminiature transformers and inductors in aerospace applications are being met with a line of 1/8-in and 1/4-in cube units. These transformers are used for audio, carrier, broad-band and power supply service in telemetering amplifiers, inertial guidance systems, and other applications. The transformers are manufactured with laminations and bobbin-wound coils, usually under microscopes, to exacting electrical and environmental requirements. Special manufacturing and test equipment has been developed because of the microminiature size. Typical ratings are 25 mW for the 1/8-in cube, 200 mW for the 1/4-in cube. Three typical applications are described."
"This paper considers the application and performance of magnetostatic surface wave delay lines as adjustable group delay equalisers in the high data rate, long haul millimetric waveguide system under study by the British Post Office. The initial 14.58 km link requires differential delays between 42 nsec and 12 nsec over a 500 MHz bandwidth for 32 channels in the 32- 48 GHz band. Test group delay equalisers have been fabricated from narrow linewidth yttrium iron garnet films, grown by liquid phase epitaxy in the 5 μm to 50 μm thickness range. These have been operated at the system IF, 1.0-1.5 GHz, in the magnetostatic surface wave mode utilising microstrip input and output couplers. Theory as well as experimental results for this frequency range are presented. Investigations have been carried out on magnetostatic wave terminations, and the effect that residual mismatches from these terminations, as well as input-output electromagnetic mismatches from the transducer 3-port networks, have on the phase and amplitude ripple of the equaliser. The effects of anisotropy field on the minimum operating frequency have been studied and optimum crystallographic orientations chosen."
"Propagation loss measurements of magnetostatic surface waves are reported and related to recent theory. They are also compared with other published loss data. Recently, a frequency independent damping parameter, λ, for MSSW's has been related to the dB/μsec loss. Using our data we find\\lambda = 0.88 \\times 10^{4}Hz. This compares favorably with an estimated value of1.163 \\times 10^{4}Hz based on FMR linewidth. A tabulation is provided of other experimental low loss measurements which relate to MSSW propagation loss. For our measurements two independent measuring techniques were employed which allow propagation and coupling losses to be separated. One technique is independent of coupling loss and measures the power difference of a single pulse over a given time delay differential. The second technique is dependent on coupling conditions. The later technique measures total insertion loss versus time delay. The relation between insertion loss and time delay is linear. The proportionality constant gives the propagation loss and the intercept the coupling loss. At 6 GHz we measure a propagation loss of 23 dB/μsec and a two way coupling loss of 10 dB. The characteristics of a 6 GHz delay line are described."
"A new high power effect in ferrites, the motion of domain walls induced by microwave pulses is described. In high power phase shifters using ferrite toroids this effect can change the remanent magnetization and hence change the insertion phase of the device. A theoretical explanation of these effects is obtained by considering a partially magnetized ferrite material having uniaxial anisotropy and exposed to an rf magnetic field perpendicular to the anisotropy axis. Experiments at 3 GHz on a twin-slab (i.e., toroid) phase shifter at peak power levels up to 300 kW are in good agreement with the theoretical expectations. It is shown that a circularly polarized rf magnetic field of strength hoexerts substantially the same pressure on domain walls as a dc magnetic field applied along the domain axis and having the strengthH_{z} = \\gammah\\min{o}\\max{2}\\omegaw, where γ is the gyromagnetic ratio and ω the angular frequency. The rf generated pressure tends to shrink those domains in which the imposed sense of circular polarization coincides with the sense of the natural spin precession."
"The design and experimental investigation of a simple logic circuit employing Josephson tunnel junctions as the switching elements is described. The design utilized matched transmission lines as signal carriers. The physical layout was simulated on a computer with a model consisting of 3 Josephson gates and 28 transmission line segments. Results of both quasi-static and high speed testing were found to be in essential agreement with theoretical expectations; only dynamic results are presented here in detail. The experimental circuit had gates with 165 ps risetimes, and in the high speed investigation, was operated with bursts of 700 ps risetime pulses tightly spaced so as to simulate a repetition rate of ∼1 GHz."
"The design of a one-bit full adder circuit based on a family of simple Josephson logic gates is considered. The adder circuit was fabricated using a 25μm minimum linewidth technology and was found to operate, even with the large devices used, with an add time far superior to existing semiconductor adder circuits."
"The theory of sinusoidal alternating field losses in a cylindrical multifilamentary superconducting wire is discussed. Expressions for the losses in a wire of radius Ro, twist lengthL, and skin depth\\delta_{\\perp}are presented for an alternating magnetic field applied transverse to the wire axis. Eddy current and hysteresis loss expressions are presented for the cases of (1) low frequency losses (\\sqrt{2}R_{0} \\ll \\delta_{\\perp}, L \\gg 2\\pi\\delta_{\\perp}), (2) shielding from surface currents (\\sqrt{2}R_{0} \\ll \\delta_{\\perp}, L \\gg 2\\pi\\delta_{\\perp}) and (3) skin effect losses (\\sqrt{2}R_{0} \\gg \\delta_{\\perp}). Hysteresis loss expressions are presented for the individual filament losses in the interior of the wire when these filaments are completely penetrated, and for the loss occurring in an outer current-saturated layer of the wire. The loss expressions presented were determined assuming a continuum model with anisotropic conductivity for the superconductor. The case of a permeability different from unity, applicable for weak fields, is discussed."
"Wire with diameters from 100 to 130 microns were obtained from 7 suppliers, and 56 to 66 micron diameter wires from 4 suppliers. The wires are described by the number of magnetic layers, their nominal thickness and their composition. The hard-axis hysteresis loops are examined to determine the hard-axis coercive force, magnetic saturation flux, and the effective anisotropy field. The wires are all evaluated to determine their memory performance. They are then ranked according to their digit, word, and crawl windows; by signal output and uniformity; by skew and magnetostriction and their uniformity; by the tension and torsion sensitivity of their pulse signal; and by their skew and pulse signal stability when aged in a hard axis field. All of the wires are expected to perform satisfactorily, but they show large differences in their nominal operating currents, margins, strain sensitivity and magnetic aging characteristics. Correlation between parameters provides insight into the origin of some of the differences between wires."
"Various failure modes of Permalloy magnetoresistors are evaluated. Magnetic failure of magnetoresistors can be eliminated by passivation with evaporated SiO and sputtered Al2O3and Si3N4films. Effect of the permalloy/Au interaction at the sensor/lead metallization interface was investigated by high current and temperature stressing (5.5 × 106A/cm2and 330°C) of actual sensors, and by He-ion nuclear backscattering and x-ray diffraction analysis of Au/permalloy sheet film couples. Stripe cracking failures occur at the negative terminal. Significant interdiffusion of Au/permalloy can occur. However, the interdiffusion is not particularly deleterious to sensor performance."
"Magnetization measurements have been made on commercial Nb-25%Zr wires in order to derive their Jc-H-T characteristics. A flux pinning model that gives scaling laws is tested. Various parameters of the model have been evaluated. They provide a useful way of characterizing these conductors. Complete Jc-T-H characteristics can be obtained from the model."
"A simple theory is presented for the anisotropy relaxation during the course of isothermal magnetic annealing. An essential assumption of this theory is in the concept of elementary region (e-region): when the film is divided into the non-overlapping e-regions, the anisotropy in each e-region can or can not be relaxed by magnetic annealing at lower temperature depending on whether the e-region contains the excess vacancy or not. The extent of the e-region is determined by the net volume in which one excess vacancy wanders before its annihilation. Important results of this theory are as follows: the isothermal annealing behavior is divided into two stages even if the anisotropy is originated only from Fe-pair ordering. The relaxation frequency of both stages and the final saturation value of the anisotropy are hardly influenced by the pre-annealing (stabilization) of the film, while the fraction of the anisotropy affected by the first (or faster) stage depends on the stabilization, namely the more complete the stabilization is made, the smaller fraction of the first stage anisotropy results."
"The relaxation process of the uniaxial anisotropy during isothermal magnetic annealing is studied in zero-magnetostrictive Permalloy films. The measurements were performed by creating the anisotropy under a dc magnetic field in isotropic films, which were deposited and stabilized in a rotating field at various temperatures up to about 350°C. It is found that the annealing property consists of two separate stages with different activation energies and frequency factors. The activation energy of each stage is found to distribute continuously in a narrow range. The mean value of the activation energy, the range of the distribution and the frequency factor are respectively 0.85 eV, ±0.15 eV, 107sec-1for the first stage, and 2.2 eV, ±0.13 eV, 1014sec-1for the second stage. The fractional anisotropy of each stage varies depending on the stabilization treatment. However, the frequency factor of the first stage and the total anisotropy are nearly constant regardless of the stabilization. Agreeing quantitatively with a theory, the separation into two annealing stages can be explained on the basis whether the vacancies, on which the reorientation of the atom-pair orderings depends, are in excess or not."
"A model is proposed for the structure of the wall separating two domains in ferromagnetic films. It is not a pure Ritz model, because it contains a function which has to be defined numerically. Rather, this function is expressed in terms of some roots of a polynomial whose coefficients depend only on the two Ritz parameters of the problem. However, the function can be written as a power series in the argument, with analytic expressions for the coefficients, to any required accuracy. In this respect the model has all the advantages of an analytic Ritz model, for using in other problems like wall mobilities or domain structures. It leads to a very pronounced asymmetry, which is in accordance with recent electron microscope observations, and which could be obtained until now only by functions defined numerically during the energy minimization process."
"In the experimental part of the work, various small superconducting coils made of hard superconducting materials are energized by linearly increasing currents at rates of change ranging from zero to several thousand amperes per second causing maximum magnetic fields up to several thousand kiloamperes per meter. The energy changes cause the superconducting coils to go to a normal state when the current reaches a \"dynamic\" transition value. The transition currents are experimentally measured. Further, energy and power dissipated in the superconducting coils are calculated thus enabling the effective resistance of the superconducting coil material to be determined. The knowledge of the effective resistance can contribute to the prediction of the efficiency of energy transfer from superconducting storage coils."
"Damages to a 75kG, 41 cm bore NbTi coil and to a 19 cm bore Nb3Sn coil are described. These are attributed to axially expansive and radially inwards forces produced by the diamagnetic properties of the composite superconductors. Qualitative explanations and approximate calculations explain the facts. Diamagnetic forces have been neglected previously in the design of superconducting coils. We have learnt that they can be important. We suggest methods of avoiding their effects. We question the validity of the traditional Lorentz force calculations for superconducting coils."
"Data storage in thin permalloy films has failed to reach its promise partly because domain walls do not maintain their configuration in the presence of disturb fields. The phenomena associated with the motion of a domain wall, both creep and coercivity, are generally determined by the interactions between the wall and its host magnetic film. Some of these interactions are isolated and studied. When a domain wall moves across a specimen, it interacts with many defects at a given time. In order to minimize the complexity of the system, a physical model is described, in which a Bloch line moving along a cross-tie wall in a coarsely crystalline permalloy film is treated like a segment of a Bloch wall. In this model adjacent Bloch wall segments are completely decoupled from each other. The Bloch line is then studied with Lorentz microscopy to determine factors that strongly affect its motion. The experimental work is compared to a mathematical model in which a partial breakoff of exchange coupling across grain boundaries is used to explain the observed behavior. Some implications of these results are discussed."
"The room temperature coercive force of some MnAlGe films can be substantially altered in a reversible way. The coercive force is reduced by heating to\\sim120\\degC and then recooling to room temperature. The low coercive force hysteresis loop can be indefinitely cycled as long as the applied field does not exceed a threshold, Hx. The large coercive force can be restored by applying a field greater than Hx. This paper contains the results of experimental observations and calculations of this phenomenon. The experimental observations include magnetic hysteresis measurements and visual observation of the details of the magnetic domain reversal process, using the Faraday effect. A model is proposed to explain this phenomenon. Both the calculations and the experimental observations support the proposed explanation."
"Magnetisation reversal processes often involve the nucleation and growth of spike domains with reversed magnetisation. Aspects of this process have been studied (a) experimentally in highly-perfect, single-crystal nickel platelets, using a high resolution magnetic colliod technique, and (b) theoretically by calculating energy changes in a simulated model of the domain structure. Spike domains have been observed in platelets which had thicknesses in the range O.1 to 15 μm, and sides from 20 μm to 1 mm. The behaviour was predominately magnetostatically controlled. Theoretical models based on evaluations of total energy variations, although giving fair agreement with experimental observations, showed very weak minima and indicated that the behaviour might best be explained by considering the equilibrium forces acting on a wall."
"An analysis of the effect of stress on spike or closure domains formed at pores is presented in an effort to gain further insight into the effects of applied stress on remanence ratios. The model is based on the concept that spike domain volume is dependent on the domain wall energy, which in turn is influenced by magnetic anisotropy and stress energies. The results indicate that the effects on remanence ratios are proportional top<\\lambda>/K_{1}, the ratio of the product of porosity and average magnetostriction constant to the magnitude of the first-order magnetocrystalline anisotropy constant. This conclusion is used in conjunction with the results of previous models to offer an explanation of the effects of applied stress in the Y3MnxFe5-xO12system."
 "Relaxation at room temperature of rare earths and cobalt ions in ferrimagnetic garnets has been studied by measuring the three linewidths : ΔH, resonance linewidth, Δ Heff, effective linewidth, ΔHK, spinwave linewidth. These linewidths have been measured at 9 GHz Δ Heff, far from resonance, Δ Hkin perpendicular and in parallel pumps. From experimental results, relations between ΔH, Δ Heffand Δ Hkhave been found which are in good agreement with the theory. The broadening δ (ΔH), due to the introduction of rare earths ions, allows the relaxation time τ (about 10-13sec) of some rare earths ions to be deduced from Kittel's theory. At room temperature, this theory explains the gyromagnetic properties of Sm3+, Tb3+, Dy3+, Ho3+and Er3+ions. An adaptation of this theory allows us to explain also the behaviour of Gd3+ions. Relation between δ (ΔH) and the saturation magnetization 4π Msare explained for the Sm, Dy, Ho and Er ions by an extension of Kittel's theory, but this explanation is not unique."
"The micromagnetics of competition between magnetostatic and exchange energies is investigated for two geometries. For a cylindrical tube an approximate solution yields the magnetization for all values of the applied magnetic field producing remanence, a coercive field and a critical field at which the magnetization changes irreversibly. The behavior in the irreversible region is also calculated. For the geometry of a thin toroidal shell it is found that most of the reversal processes is divergentless, but in a crucial region magnetic charges develop."
"The influences of simultaneous tetrahedral (aluminium) and octahedral substitutions (tin or indium) upon the magnetic and microwave properties of various YGdFe polycrystalline garnets have been studied. We have obtained interesting new materials with saturation magnetizations between 200 and 900 G which exhibit higher temperature stabilities of the magnetization than those of classical garnets. In addition they have fairly narrow gyromagnetic linewidths, weak dielectric losses and relatively high values of spin-wave linewidths. These properties, obtained by a judicious balance between both substitutions, make these materials suitable for applications in the lower frequency range of the microwave spectrum when high peak and average powers are needed."
"A balanced superconducting second-derivative gradiometer has been constructed in order to measure magnetic phenomena in an unshielded environment. The essential design features of the gradiometer, including its insensitivity to rotation and its capability of discriminating effectively against magnetic fields from distant sources, are described. Several details of the measured response of the gradiometer are presented to establish a correspondence between the design and the actual performance. Two magnetocardio-grams and a measurement of remanent magnetization in the area of the chest resulting from a 100 Oe magnetizing field are shown as typical results obtained in an unshielded environment. The observation of a magnetic signal synchronized with the heartbeat but which depends upon orientation of the subject and apparatus in the earth's field is also reported."
"Since a SQUID magnetometer is an extremely sensitive device capable of detecting minute magnetic flux changes in a sample, it will also detect unwanted signals from materials near the magnetometer. The presence of temperature dependent \"background signals\" limits the accuracy of measurements of the temperature variation of the magnetization of a sample. Measurements of the magnetization from 1K down to 0.01K of materials used in the construction of the magnetometer described here show that these materials are responsible for the background signals. From these data, magnetometers can be designed so that the background contribution introduces an uncertainty of less than one flux quantum for a temperature change from 1K down to 0.01K in a field of 100 Oe."
"A new microwave SQUID magnetometer is described which employs a thin-film sensor operable at 4.2 K. Both sensitivity and bandwidth are substantially improved over comparable SQUIDS pumped at RF. Flux sensitivity of\\Phi_{o}/100,000rms Hz-1/2has been attained. The corresponding energy sensitivity isE_{\\min}=L_{i}I_{\\min}^{2}/2 = 2\\times10^{-30}J/Hz. measured at the terminals of the input coil. It is argued that this energy sensitivity is the most useful basis on which to compare SQUID magnetometers which differ in inductance. With a 10 cm diam pickup loop, the magnetic field sensitivity is approximately3\\times10^{-12}G/Hz1/2. Signal bandwidths from dc to beyond 100 MHz are observed, limited only by the input circuit. Feedback loop bandwidths greater than one MHz have been achieved, which allow highly linear operation at frequencies greater than 100 kHz and slew rates approaching10^{7} \\Phi_{o}/Second."
"In order to prepare low coercive force MnBi films, a theory is derived, which relates the coercive force Hcto the physical parameters describing the film. To test the theory the experimentally measured temperature dependence of Hcis compared with the theoretically expected one. Improving the crystalline state of the MnBi films it is possible to make films with an Hcof only 45 Oe."
"This paper is concerned with the generation of the rotating in-plane magnetic field which is required by field-accessed bubble devices. We discuss both the design of the field coils as well as the drive circuitry which is required to produce transient-free starting and stopping of the rotating field. Details of coil design are given for a multichip 1 Mbit module and a small (0.25 sq. cm) single chip memory. The circuitry required to drive these coils at 1OO kHz and 1 MHz is discussed in detail."
"The effect of an in-plane field on the diameter of a bubble located under a permalloy element can be used to measure the potential wells and drive fields of a propagation circuit. The wells decrease in depth with increasing separation between the garnet film and permalloy element, but increase in depth with increasing in-plane fields. The wide variation in well depth with element geometry accounts for the previously observed uneven motion along propagation tracks. Changes in the operating margins for bubble propagation have been studied as a function of the silica spacing thickness, and can be qualitatively understood by reference to the potential well behaviour. A method is described for determining material mobilities of the garnet films from a knowledge of (a) the potential wells under stable locations, and (b) time-of-flight measurements between those positions."
"The development of the German magnetic-transportation program is reviewed. First the chronological process of the program is outlined. Next follow descriptions of system and component developments. Finally several experimental facilities are described."
"A short survey of the basic research - theoretical and experimental - that is being done at the Research Laboratories of Siemens AG in Erlangen on various basic and hybrid levitation systems is given. Along with the digest of the so far published work, some new results on difference flux system, hybrid normal-null flux system with a T-shaped track and a simple hybrid ferromagnetic null flux system are also included."
"As the capacity of magnetic bubble circuit designs is increased the processing yield decreases due to the finite number of defects in the epitaxial garnet film and the overlay circuit. A model is presented to examine the effect on the fabrication yield of an on-chip modifiable redundant circuit design for a 105bit serial shift register. The yield model is based on a conceptual design which consists of a primary loop and a set of secondary loops which may be eliminated from or made part of the memory storage loop without introducing blanks in the data stream. The ability to enable and disable the secondary loops has a finite yield which is included in the calculation of overall yield. Other factors which contribute to the overall yield include the contribution of the garnet film and the processed circuit, which take the form of a sum of binomial terms, each with a Poisson density probability. The results show that the yield of the enable and disable operation must be greater than 0.9 to achieve fabrication costs which are equal to or less than the nonredundant simple serial shift register."
"The philosophy behind the Wolfson Maglev Project at Warwick University is stated, and details of major elements of hardware are given. Levitation and propulsion techniques, cryostat and chassis designs that will be incorporated in the final passenger carrying vehicles are discussed."
"The design of a full-scale 140-passenger Magneplane vehicle is described, emphasizing its cryogenic aspects. The vehicle has an overall length of 50m and maximum width of 3.8m. Its gross weight is just under 45,000 kg. The cross-sectional profile and structure of the fuselage are modeled after modern commercial Jet aircraft such as the Boeing 707. Sixteen elliptic superconducting pancake coils are placed in the bottom 120° arc of the vehicle with a center-to-center spacing of 2.75m. With all coils energized at 1.25×106A-turns each, a lift force of 5×105N will be produced at high speeds for a separation distance of 25cm between the surfaces of the coils and the levitation strips. A hollow conductor is proposed for the superconducting coils. It is a niobium-titanium multifilament, aluminum stabilized and stainless-steel reinforced composite with a rectangular cross-section, having overall dimensions of 2.5cm by 1.25cm, with an equivalent 1-cm diameter hole. Supercritical helium is circulated through the coils to keep them in a cryogenically stable condition. Each coil is enclosed in its own vacuum envelope together with its thermal shield, persistent switch and necessary structural support. The coolant passes continuously through hollow passages in a number of parallel paths, maintaining a set temperature. The stability of the conductor during its normal excursion has been analyzed to choose a coolant flow rate which allows a certain portion of the coil to become resistive, and remain so for a limited duration of time, without forcing the entire coil to quench. The behavior of the normal-zone propagation as a function of coolant flow rate, as well as pressure drop and frictional heat generation through the conductor, have been studied for the present geometry."
"Means are studied to bring propulsion power from commercial utility lines and distribute it and control it to the LSM propulsion winding in the guideway. Switched sections of propulsion winding from 0.25 km to 2.5 km long are considered and cost variations explored. Magneplane guideway for this study propagates a fixed frequency travelling magnetic wave on which vehicles with superconducting magnets for LSM and maglev are inserted and removed by adjustable frequency sections at station stops. Costs reported reflect only fixed frequency main-line. Several variable parameters are considered. These include length of LSM winding which will be energized by each PCU, number of winding sections per PCU, utility supply voltage, and capacitor compensation of winding inductance to reduce thyristor current. Estimated costs are presented to show the influence of variation in the parameters. Future cost trends are considered. System power efficiencies are presented and their influence on selection of non-optimum system cost is considered. Development of thyristor switching technology for tuned series RLC high power circuits is recommended."
"We present simple \"best-case\" calculations of power/lift and lift/weight ratios for iron-cored electromagnetic levitation systems using either the attraction between controlled electromagnets and ferromagnetic guideway members or the repulsion between a.c. electromagnets and guideway conductors. Although power/lift ratios are low, the practical engineering restrictions of conductor current density, iron flux density and magnet size result in poor lift/ weight ratios and limit operation to low suspension heights."
"Guidance requirements for a high speed Maglev vehicle with electrodynamic suspension and linear synchronous motor propulsion are discussed. The effects of cornering, cross-winds and lateral destabilizing forces on the suspension are shown to lead to a guidance stiffness requirement of 104N/cm for small lateral displacements. This guidance force can be produced with a flat elevated guideway (desired to minimize show accumulation) by the interaction of LSM propulsion magnets and currents induced in flat nullflux loops mounted along the centre of the guideway."
"Binary NiFe, NiCo, and FeCo films and ternary NiFeCo films have been investigated over a large range of alloy composition. Measurements were carried out for the uniaxial anisotropy Ku, the structure constantS, and the wall coercive force Hw. It is qualitatively shown that the uniaxial anisotropy is mainly caused by directional ordering of unequal pairs of atoms. The model of directional pair ordering of equal pairs, as usually discussed in the literature, appears incorrect. The strongest contribution comes from FeCo pairs, the next from NiCo pairs, while the influence of NiFe pairs seems to be small. Investigation of well prepared ternary films will allow the determination of the six anisotropy constants which are related to the six possibilities of pairing three different sorts of atoms. The dependence of the uniaxial anisotropy as given by the experiment is shown by a plot in the ternary alloy diagram. The relation for the coercive forceH_{w} \\propto K_{u}^{1/4}D^{1/2}M_{w}^{-1} Swas verified over the whole range of alloy composition. A plot of Hwin the ternary alloy diagram is also given."
"The ride quality of a high speed repulsion type magnetically levitated vehicle using linear synchronous motor (LSM) propulsion has been studied. Vehicle motion is dependent upon the active LSM forces, the passive magnetic lift and drag forces, the aerodynamic drag force, and the technique employed for control. Derivations of the passive lift and drag forces and of the active heave and propulsion control forces are presented. For a balanced three phase LSM, it is shown that harmonic force pulsations disappear, except for the sixth harmonic and its multiples. A control technique which stabilizes the surge motion and provides needed damping in heave to guarantee acceptable ride quality has been simulated. Transient responses, for a vehicle traveling at 120 m/s show stable well damped motion. At this velocity, sixth harmonic effects are completely negligible. Stochastic results show that the heave motion power spectral density response to a moderately rough guideway, i.e., A = 1.34 × 10-5m, more than satisfies the UMTA ride quality specification."
"A permalloy propagation structure with six magnetic poles per propagation period is shown to have wide operating margins. The structure can be used for corners and transfers as well as straight propagation."
"The stability and ride quality of a small scale MAGLEV test vehicle were determined by measuring its motions in five degrees of freedom during levitated flight. Various offsets were introduced into the guideway to stimulate strongly different modes of oscillation and to search for instabilities. These offsets, that were up to 25% of the equilibrium suspension height, induced motions that were analyzed to evaluate both passive and active damping systems used on the vehicle. In more than thirty tests of the vehicle, including stimulations of the heave, roll, pitch, yaw, and slip modes of oscillation, no instabilities were observed in any degree of freedom whether using passive or active damping. The active damping system, used in conjunction with the passive system, provided greater stability and ride quality than the passive system alone. The passive system, however, provided enough damping to achieve stability and is therefore a desirable back-up in the event of a failure in the active control system. The tests were simulated on a computer using a completely nonlinear dynamics model and provided good approximations to the data. Extrapolations to full-size vehicles have not been made."
"Two novel magneto-optic systems are described. The first is a non-impact line printer. A low birefringence orthoferrite is used to realize a dot matrix representation of a line of characters. This is transferred optically onto electrophotographic paper. The second system is a two-dimensional all-electronic coherent optical processor. Garnet films are used to obtain the electronic equivalent of optical transparencies in Fourier transform processors."
"The room-temperature saturation magnetization of CdxMn1-xFe2O4decreased with increasing cadmium concentration. When0 < x \\leq 0.5, the decrease in saturation magnetization was due to the increase in the amount of non-magnetic distorted cubic Cd(Mn,Fe)2O4which formed as x was increased. The saturation magnetization became very small for x > 0.5 due to the formation of (Cd, Fe) (Mn,Fe)2O4. The grain size, the grain size distribution and the porosity played a significant role in changing the hysteresis loop parameters of CdxMn1-xFe2O4. The maximum Br/Bm was obtained at x = 0.3 due to the combination of a smaller grain size and a more homogeneous grain size distribution. A higher porosity at x = 0 and a smaller grain size at x = 0.3 accounted for a larger coercive field strength for these compositions."
"The effects of tensile and compressive stresses applied parallel to the magnetic flux path were observed on specially shaped specimens cut from blocks of low-loss MnZn ferrous ferrite typical of those used for inductor cores. The permeability, losses and coercivity were observed as functions of temperature. Stress levels of about one tenth of the ultimate tensile strength resulted in a significant increase in losses and a pronounced effect on the permeability-temperature curve. The latter effect is generally consistent with the known variation of anisotropy and magnetostriction with temperature."
"A magnetic levitation system utilizing superconducting magnets is now being developed for a high speed ground vehicle. From a view point of ride quality, a damping force for the mechanical oscillation of a levitated vehicle is one of the most important problems in this levitation system. This paper presents the analysis of the magnetic damping force in a loop track magnetic levitaion system; the magnetic damping force is caused by track loops. It is theoretically pointed out that the magnetic damping force is \"negative\" except in an extremely low velocity range. The theory is applied to the estimation of the magnetic damping force in a train model of practical interest. The results of the estimation suggest that the negative magnetic damping force is considerably large in a median velocity range (100 ∼ 200 km/h). Passive damping has been also investigated; it is found that damper loops installed in the levitation cryostat is effective even in persistent mode operation. It is concluded that rather good ride quality will be obtained by use of the passive damping method."
"By using a simple thermodynamic model combined with the molecular field model, we have determined from previously published experimental results that the most consistent enthalpy of exchange for Ga3+between tetrahedral and octahedral sites in epitaxial iron garnet films is -5000 cal/mole (-0.22 eV). The molecular field model is also used in calculating Curie temperatures and in calculating the temperature dependence of the material length parameter for LPE garnet films. An expression is presented relating the Curie temperature to the molecular field coefficients for a three magnetic sublattice system. By using a two magnetic sublattice system, the calculations of the temperature dependence of the material length parameter (l) show that a composition containing ∼0.2 octahedral substitution and ∼1.1 tetrahedral substitution should show a low (\\Deltal/l\\DeltaT)0-25°C. A film of approximate composition [Y1.9Ca1.1][Fe1.8Sc0.2] (Fe1.9Ge1.1)O12was grown by LPE. The temperature dependence oflwas found to be -0.057 percent per degree, which is in good agreement with the predicted value."
"The mechanical aspects of magnetic recording are examined and the limitations imposed upon magnetic recording by mechanical considerations are estimated. These results are then used to determine the maximum area packing density to be achieved with the tape recorders (longitudinal and rotary transverse) as well as with discs."
"Finding a digital code that maximizes the net linear density while maintaining satisfactory data reliability is a frequent objective in designing a channel for digital magnetic recording. This tutorial paper summarizes analog channel characteristics significant to the modulation and error-correction codes. Selection parameters for a modulation code are also discussed. Three statistical distributions are considered that describe the observable effects of the underlying probability of error. These distributions form the basis for selecting the error-correction code. Consideration is also given to the impact of system constraints on the selection of digital codes."
 "The conditions under which unbounded fields can exist at the edges of a ponderable body are examined. Following Meixner's approach, it is shown that for a nonpermeable finite-conductivity body, such singularities do not exist."
"Experiments on small-scale magnets have been performed to determine the effects of track eddy currents on the behavior of the attractive electromagnetic suspension system. Measurements of the velocity dependence of the current and the drag force for fixed lift force have been made for velocities up to 100 m/s. A model of the magnet based upon the magnetization of the poles has been developed. Fourier techniques have been used to calculate the lift and drag forces as a function of speed and current. The field dependence of the track permeability has been accounted for in an appropriate manner by a self-consistent procedure using a multi-layer model of the track. Comparison to experiment has been made for the small magnets, and the behavior of full-scale magnets is predicted."
"This paper describes a linear synchronous motor which has been designed to propel a 500 km/hr electrodynamically-levitated vehicle. Superconducting magnets on the vehicle interact with an aluminum-cable winding built into the guideway. Following a description of the motor, a coupled-circuit model is derived and used to optimize the winding Configuration and to predict the performance of the motor. An inverter which acts as a controllable current source is used with the motor."
"Thermographic techniques and rotating wheel experiments are used to examine magnetic forces and dynamics of levitated models. Induced track current and magnetic pressure distributions for moving superconducting levitation coils are infered from laboratory tests on coils with sinusoidal currents. Magnetic search coils and liquid crystal and infrared thermography are used to determine current patterns in thin aluminum plates. Theoretical justification for these methods is given and shows that sinusoidally induced patterns are similar to motion induced current distributions in the high speed thin track limit. The dynamics of a freely magnetically levitating model on a \"V\" groove rotating thin track shows that stable motions are possible for the \"V\" track. These tests also show that drag coupled yaw-roll-lateral instabilities are possible for certain model geometries."
"The coercive field Hcof single domain particles is stress sensitive. Theory shows that stress alone leads to Hc(stress) = 3λsσ/Isin a uniaxial single domain particle, if the magnetization rotates coherently. λsis the magnetostriction, σ the stress, and Isthe magnetization. It is therefore possible to orient selectively the orientation of magnetic particles in an arbitrary volume element of volume L3- at position\\overrightarrow{r}in a sample, since by the proper superposition of ultrasonic pulses with pulse widthLa higher stress state can be generated at\\overrightarrow{r}than in any other section of the sample. This set of pulses will reduce Hcfrom the unstressed state to H'c< Hc. An applied field H with H'c<H <Hcwill line up dipoles parallel toHonly in this volume elemet. One can \"write\" into the memory. Since this \"line up\" leads to a signal in coil surrounding the sample, one can also \"read\" if the dipole orientation changes in the volume L3, since this leads to an induced voltage in the coil surrounding the sample."
"A strong lift large clearance suspension can be produced using the attraction between superconducting train magnets and iron track sheets. A null flux arrangement of track loops interacting with the same train magnets will yield magnetic lift/drag ratios of several hundred, and can be designed to give whatever degree of inherent stability is desired. As an example, lift forces of two tons per foot of vehicle can be achieved with clearances of six to twelve inches, and inherent restoring forces in any direction can be designed in the range of 0.2 to 1 g per inch. Calculations are made of lift and restoring forces for various track designs taking into account finite edge and permeability effects. Such a system with its high lift, low drag capability would allow the economic high speed transport of freight as well as passengers. Possibilities include transport of bulk materials, piggy-back trucks, and autos with passengers."
"The exploration of the interplanetary medium and the magnetospheres of the outer planets requires the implementation of magnetic field measuring instrumentation with wide dynamic range, high stability, and reliability. The fluxgate magnetometers developed for the Pioneer 11 and Mariner-Jupiter-Saturn missions are presented. These instruments cover the range of .01 nT to2 \\times 10^{6}nT with optimum performance characteristics and low power consumption."
"Microscopic observations applying high, variable magnetic fields on surfaces of high-coercivity magnets reveal hysteretic magnetization changes by domain wall movements. Lines, formerly believed to be grain boundaries, are moving with changing magnetic fields during the magnetization reversal. Domain wall motions are shown on single micrographs which were selected from sequences of micrographs depicting magnetization cycles on commercial-grade magnets of barium ferrite and of samarium cobalt. The observed processes are believed to consume energy; they can be responsible for the damping of oscillations which was experienced before in magnetic bearings."
"The force and stiffness characteristics for rectangular-pole geometries are derived as a function of the parameters gap width, pole width and pole displacement. The Schwarz-Christoffel transformation technique is employed, with the simpler cases giving directly integrable solutions, or solutions in terms of elliptic integrals. For the most general case, numerical integration is used to determine the transformation and the force characteristics. The analysis shows that the restoring force and initial stiffness for the finite-width geometry are bounded by those for the infinite-width and line-potential geometries, and that the unbalance force and stiffness vary linearly with pole-width."
"Magnetic fields produced by superconducting magnets on high speed guided vehicles may produce intolerably large eddy losses in armature and stabilization windings as well as in structural Steel components unless proper precautions are taken. This paper describes an approximate method of calculating the eddy losses and illustrates the method by calculating the losses for a proposed linear synchronous motor."
"Conventional linear motors always have a component of force which acts at right-angles to the normal (levitation) and longitudinal (traction) forces, and which attempts to expel the secondary side-ways from under the primary. This paper describes some different types of machine in which these lateral forces always act inwards, i.e. attempt to align the primary with the secondary. The first machines described rely upon an application of either the shaded-pole principle, or the reluctance principle, to produce a lateral stability which is conditional on the relative widths of the primary and secondary. A later development was the double-skewed or 'herringbone' motor, in which inwards-travelling fields are set up by appropriate skewing of the primary slots. This machine is shown to be somewhat disappointing, in that stability was once again restricted to very narrow secondaries. Transverse-flux geometry has led to the introduction of a large number of devices which are much simpler in construction than their longitudinal-flux counterparts, but which will stably levitate, guide, and propel a sheet secondary. Difficulty is encountered in maintaining stability when iron is introduced into the secondary iron circuits, but the paper shows how stability can be restored by using a double U-core construction."
"A coil coupled to the hard axis of a thin magnetic film, or group of films, exhibits an inductance which is dependent on the easy-axis static field. A simple and effective magnetometer can be constructed using two such transducers, with opposing film magnetization senses, in a self-excited balanced configuration. The circuit requires very low operating power and, with the addition of magnetic feedback, is capable of resolving field changes on the order of 10-6Oe. The resolution is limited by film-generated noise and extends to smaller field changes as the planar areas of the films are increased. Magnetometers have been constructed using films ranging from 6 mm square to 16 mm square."
"Free precession in the earth's magnetic field by optically polarized He3nuclei has been observed for the first time. A He3nuclear magnetometer utilizing this effect was fabricated and evaluated. A unique characteristic of the He3nuclei is very long transverse relaxation times which are found to range from 103to 105seconds. The He3sensor has a signal-to-noise ratio comparable to conventional proton magnetometers, but is expected to have improved accuracy and a lower operating power requirement. A technique is described for overcoming the effects of radiation damping in order to utilize these very long relaxation times in the magnetometer. The He3magnetometer is demonstrated to have a sensitivity of1.0 \\times 10^{-6}G by comparison with a locked-oscillator He4magnetometer."
"This paper introduces a new application of magnetometers employing the magnetic core to monitoring the motion of the tongue in speech. The monitoring system consists of two magnetometers and a small permanent magnetic rod which is fixed on the tongue surface. The basic principle for measuring makes use of the output changes induced in the magnetometers due to the changes of the distance between the magnetometers and the rod which moves together with the tongue. Repeated experiments have led us to the conclusion that this magnetic method is a powerful technique for speech physiology research because of its simplicity, safety, economy, and flexibility for signal presentation."
"The present work describes the basis and the technique of a direct measurement method for the retention time of food in the forestomachs of sheep. By this method an inert ferrite as powder (MgOFe2O3) is added as a tracer to the food. A small and light magnetometric sensor, encapsulated to withstand the action of physiologic liquids and implanted within the abomasum, detects the presence of small amounts of the tracer at their arrival in the abomasum, as indicated by the appearance of spikes in the recorded pattern. In order to insure that both food and tracer will flow at the same rate, an impregnation method was developed, attaching the tracer material to the tested component of the food. Measurements of time elapsed between giving the marked food and the first appearance of it in the abomasum (retention time) were performed, by continuous monitoring. Retention time could be consistently related to the length of the food particles, as expected. The method has potential applications in other parts along the digestive tract."
"The critical fields for the nucleation and reversal of magnetisation in thin films leading to the formation of strip and bubble domain structures have been calculated. Attention has been paid to the role of imperfections which have been represented by a local lowering of the anisotropy constant. The value of the anisotropy constant and the size of the imperfections have been shown to be important and the corresponding fields compared with other important field values in bubble domain theory."
"A single-axis vector magnetometer which can be used to measure changes in geomagnetic field components has been constructed using a parametric resonance in the optically pumped 23S1level of He4. The principle of operation for the n=1, p=1 parametric resonance is described. This resonance has a peak amplitude-to-noise ratio of1.2 \\times 10^{4}in a 0.5 Hz noise bandwidth and a14.9 \\times 10^{-4}G linewidth. The performance of the instrument is demonstrated by observing changes in the earth's field and 1.0μG calibration signals. Sensitivity is established to be1.0 \\times 10^{-7}G in a 5 Hz noise bandwidth."
"Digital recordings were placed on thin magnetic films which covered a range of coercivities and thicknesses. The details of the resulting transitions between bits were observed by transmission electron microscopy and found to be defined by cross-tie walls in a saw-tooth like structure (STS). This is unlike the magnetization distributions assumed by most recording theories. The theories of several other researchers, based on their observations of STS could not explain the results observed in this work. This is due to theoretical energy expressions based on magnetization distributions somewhat different from those observed here. The STS tip angle was found to be proportional to Hc-0.5. The STS amplitude was proportional to film thickness times Hc-1.5. Attempts at formulating a theory to explain these results were not successful."
"Mechanisms of the generation and the control of magnetic head noise in an audio tape recorder were studied. Head noise was generated from some flux changes by 180° domain wall movements which were produced because of relaxation of shocks given by a frictional vibrating tape. Then noise spectrums were based on vibration spectrums of a tape. Low noise property of a permalloy head was due to large eddy current losses which were accompanied by restrictions of domain wall movements. On a ferrite head noise, effects of crystalline anisotropy and distortion were great, however, a low noise ferrite head was not presented until shape anisotropy and pinning effects by the grain boundary or SnO2precipitation were applied."
"This paper describes a new method of packaging of a bubble device using, \"flat-faced-coil (FFC)\" drive coils, which simplify bubble device construction and facilitate easy heat radiation from the coils. The construction of the bubble drive coils is very important, because it determines the bubble device assembly process and the thermal dissipation of the coils. The FFCs sandwich the bubble chips. On the other hand, solenoid coils usually wrap around the bubble chips. As the FFC creates no large obstacles, it is easy to remove bubble chips from the coils as required. There is also excellent accessibility when wiring from the bubble chips to the electronic circuits."
"Magnetic heads made of a new ferrite material were developed. The ferrite material was a cubic Mn-Zn ferrite having a fibrous structure and a <111> fiber axis. The heads had merits of magnetic heads made of a polycrystalline ferrite and those of a single crystal ferrite. Especially, resistance to material crumbling was improved by a factor of more than 10 and so was the lifetime of the heads. Among the heads, one with its track surface being //"
"Domain wall velocity in YFeO3single crystal platelets is measured by the bubble collapse method. The applied pulse width ranges from 100 ns to 7.8 ns, and the maximum applied field is 170 Oe. The wall velocity increases nearly monotonically with field up to 9000 m/sec, which exceeds the Walker critical velocity of 3600 m/sec estimated by Hagedorn. A weak knee is observed in velocity-field curves at about 4400 m/sec, which appears to be the indication of the Walker peak or critical velocity. The velocity break down theories due to coherent or incoherent precession of magnetization around the drive field analyzed by Slonczewski in high field are not applicable to this material. A possible mechanism in high field appears to be that the wall moves followed by a wake as proposed by Hagedorn and Gyorgy, and recently by Schlömann."
"A novel method of balanced firing of thyristors used for polyphase supply is presented. The phase angles of the polyphase voltages are shifted simultaneously by controlling a phase shifter of a single phase. A simple feedback circuit including a saturable core and an integrator plays a key role in this balanced phase shifter. Phase distortions due to the change of the supply voltage and of the supply frequency can be almost completely removed by this new method."
"Unwanted and sometimes damaging high-amplitude voltage spikes occur during each half cycle in many transistor saturable-core inverters at the moment when the core saturates and the transistors switch. The analysis shows that spikes are an intrinsic characteristic of certain types of inverters even with negligible leakage inductance and purely resistive load. The small but unavoidable after-saturation inductance of the saturablecore transformer plays an essential role in creating these undesired high-voltage spikes. State-plane analysis provides insight into the complex interaction between core and transistors, and shows the circuit parameters upon which the magnitude of these spikes depends."
"The process of topological switching of magnetic bubble arrays, in which arrays of bubbles of one direction of magnetisation may be stably and repetitively switched to arrays of the opposite polarity, is described. A qualitative analysis of the various steps in the switching process is discussed, which points to the conclusion that an in-plane dynamic anisotropy must exist in garnet film samples which exhibit stable topological switching. Quantitative analysis is assisted by the observation of the variations in transmitted light intensity when the sample is illuminated by a Helium-Neon laser during switching."
"An all-bubble text-editing system configuration is described, which is simpler and more versatile than the more conventional systems typically composed of a mechanical-access magnetic storage, a semiconductor buffer, and semiconductor editing shift-registers. In addition to storage and text editing, bubble devices are also proposed to implement address decoding, character encoding, and timing signal initiation."
"The magnetic field distribution in saturable iron parts of electrical machines is defined by a quasi-Poisson equation. The solution to this equation is obtained by minimizing an energy functional by means of trial functions defined in triangular subregions of the two-dimensional field region. This method is applied to an electrical machine for predicting its no-load and on-load performance. Good agreement is obtained between estimated values and test results. Under load conditions, since the pole axis is not an axis of symmetry, a new boundary condition is introduced. Graphical plots of the flux distribution for the machine under different operating conditions are shown."
"Polycrystalline garnet of the system Y3-2x-y-zGdzCa2x+yFe5-x-yVxZryO12was investigated. Relatively temperature-stable magnetization near room temperature and narrow ferrimagnetic resonance linewidth (\\DeltaH 10Oe) were obtained for the composition range of0.4 \\leq x \\leq 0.6, 0.3 \\leq y \\leq 0.6and0.3 \\leq z \\leq 1.6respectively. The lowest value of linewidth at z=1.0 was 5.2 Oe at the composition of x=0.4 and y=0.6, which suggests the remarkable reduction of anisotropy."
"Disks cut from three types of commercial magnetic recording tape have been measured over a range of temperatures with the rotating-sample magnetometer to obtain information about the magnitude, temperature dependence, and origin of the anisotropies present, and about the coercive field and its temperature dependence. The experimental method has the advantage of giving continuous d.c. output signals which can be easily recorded vs. temperature."
"Diffusion couples formed between cobalt and samarium provide useful structures for studying the Co5Sm eutectoid decomposition. The diffusion zones consist of Co, Co17Sm2, Co5Sm, Co7Sm2, Co3Sm, and Co2Sm when formed in the 820° to 1130°C range. The absence of the Co5Sm phase in the 775° couple provides supporting evidence for the eutectoid transformation and locates the eutectoid temperature at about 800°C. Couples formed above 820°C and then heat-treated below 800°C provided information on the eutectoid transformation which does not follow the classic Fe-C pearlite reaction. The possible effects of the decomposition on properties of permanent magnets are discussed."
"Magnetization studies were carried out on Tm2Fe17-xCoxand Tm2Fe17-xAlxcompounds in the temperature range 4.2 K to 1200 K. Tm2Fe17changes its easy axis of magnetization from the basal plane to c-axis below 85 K. This transition occurs at higher temperatures as cobalt or aluminum is substituted for iron. The\\underline{c}lattice parameter goes through a maximum as a function of x in the Tm2Fe17-xCoxternaries. The results are interpreted in terms of distance dependence of the magnetic interactions and a competition between the sublattice magnetic anisotropy. Tm2Fe3Co14has an anisotropy field of 38 kOe and a potential energy product of 43 MGOe at room temperature."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In the present paper we outline the analysis and present the analytical expressions for the eddy current losses for the case of'N'domains where'N'may be any integer. The only assumptions made in this analysis are: (1) constant conductivity; (2) infinite length in the direction of magnetization; and (3) sinusoidal motion of domain walls for sinusoidal application of field. For various values of'N'the losses computed from these expressions are compared to those predicted by the Pry and Bean model. WhenN \\rightarrow \\infin, W(width of crystal)\\rightarrow \\infinand for a constant finite domain size our model reduces to that of Pry and Bean, and forN = 2we obtain Agarwal and Rabins results. However, these limits are never realized in real materials, and it is shown that for realistic domain width to sheet thickness ratios, the losses per unit volume computed from the model presented here are significantly lower than those predicted from the Pry and Bean model."
"Losses were measured as a function of frequency and induction for a"
"Annealing studies of initially amorphous TbFe2show a large increase in the coercive force at the onset of recrystallization. The coercivity increases from ≈100 Oe in the amorphous state to 3.75 kOe after a 525°C anneal. Neutron diffraction establishes the crystallite size as 100 A ±10A after a 415°C anneal and 150 A ±10A after a 525°C anneal. Following the 525°C anneal this material exhibited an energy product of 8.7 MGO (1 MGO = 106ergs/cm3) indicating considerable promise for recrystallized RFe2materials in permanent magnet applications."
"Recent developments in the TBM memory system are described. In particular, refinements in the control and data interfaces which render the system transparent to user programs are discussed. Areas for future development work are suggested, and projections of possible storage density increases are offered."
"Single metal alloys have been explored as the cation source in the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of iron garnets. Growth of good quality single crystal garnet films containing as many as five different cations has been achieved over a wide range of deposition conditions. The relationship of film composition to alloy compositions and deposition conditions has been determined for several materials. By proper choice of the alloy composition and the deposition conditions, uncrazed deposits were grown on"
"This paper outlines the operation and limitations of the IVC Model MMR-1 high-density data tape recorder. Description covers the method of reading NRZ-M and bi-phase-coded address data, continuously, at search speeds ranging from 4 ips to 400 ips. Future projections for helical scan digital recorders are also discussed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"We have measured the in-plane magnetization and the perpendicular magnetization which 10-μm-thick tape of γ-Fe2O3particles acquires on passing through the field of a head driven with direct current. The perpendicular component of the head field has two adverse effects on the remanent state at the surface of the tape closest to the head. First, it induces a perpendicular component of magnetization which leads to asymmetry in the output pulse. Second, it leads to a reduction in the in-plane magnetization which reduces the signal output level at high recording densities. The perpendicular moment can be ≥5% of the in-plane moment in the normal writing current range of the head. In the same current range the reduction in in-plane moment represents about 5% of the tape's maximum remanent moment."
"A brief review of digital magnetic recording theory is given with emphasis on the analysis of ferrite, inductive thin film, and magnetoresistive heads. The utility of several approaches is demonstrated by three calculations: (1) resolution and signal amplitude of a shielded magnetoresistive head, (2) readback properties of a single sheet of permalloy with adjacent current conductor, and (3) analysis of spurious pulses generated by outside corners of ferrite heads. A discussion of high density digital recording is given, and it is concluded that the magnetoresistive head offers the greatest possible areal density of information. This density is conservatively estimated to be 1.6×107flux reversals per cm2(108per in2) at a head-medium separation of 0.125μm. Experimental data in support of this conclusion are given."
"Magnetic defects disturbing the reliable operation of bubble domain devices were detected by scanning an arrayed stripe domain band which was generated by a pair of permanent magnets. A condition suitable for the defect detection was examined, especially as for the magnetic field gradient applied. Comparative values of the coercive fields of the defects were deduced by the measurement of the field difference along the full length of the stretched stripe domains pinned by the defects. An instrumental technique has been devised for automatic imperfection mapping. Electrical signals from a scanning line on a TV monitor are used for the detection. Imperfections are plotted on an X-Y recorder by amplifying the signals. This sensitive method easily located imperfections found with difficulty by other methods and has been successfully used to evaluate the LPE garnet films for device applications."
"The abrasivity of CrO2and γ-Fe2O3particles has been compared in polishing experiments using typical head materials as test surfaces. In the hardness range of 1800 - 8000 N/mm2CrO2abrasivity decreases linearly with increasing hardness. Gamma ferric oxide behaves similarly up to 3000 N/mm2but its abrasivity drops off sharply at higher hardness values. This difference is interpreted in terms of particle hardness. Using heads with mumetal pole tips the abrasivity of CrO2and γ-Fe2O3audio tapes has been studied as a function of tape speed and humidity. In addition, a random selection of commercially available tapes has been evaluated. It has been found that on mumetal heads CrO2and γ-Fe2O3tapes are equally abrasive."
"In GdCoMo amorphous film bubble devices the drive field required for device operation has been found to be linearly dependent on the saturation magnetization of the bubble material over the range from 350 to 1200G. The devices studied were 8000 bit storage chips employing electron-beam-fabricated T-bars, Y-bars, and chevrons of 1μm linewidth. The bubble domain diameter and film thickness were approximately 2μm in all devices. The linear increase in drive field with 4πMsis found to be related with the energy required to move a bubble from one permalloy pattern to another across a gap. On the other hand, the field required to overcome coercivity in the movement of a bubble without leaving a single permalloy T-bar is found to be independent of variations in 4πMsof the bubble material."
"This paper describes the changes in magnetic properties of iron-27% cobalt alloys undergoing various annealing treatments. Two commercial heats (0.2 and 0.1 mm thick respectively) of similar compositions were studied. The anneals were carried out in both dry hydrogen and vacuum for a variety of temperatures up to 1200°C. After annealing, the magnetic properties were measured, the samples were examined metallographically, and the residual carbon and sulfur contents were determined. Results indicated that annealing in a dry hydrogen atmosphere was superior to heat treating under vacuum. The best annealing temperature to obtain good overall magnetic properties was 900°C. A slightly higher annealing temperature, 925°C, caused severe degradation in magnetic properties. It is suggested that the poorer properties are related to the presence of the alpha/gamma phase transformation at 925°C. Annealing at temperatures above 925°C caused improvement in some of the magnetic properties. Coercive force (Hc) seemed most sensitive to annealing conditions, with a strong positive correlation being found between Hcand the carbon plus sulfur contents after annealing."
"An all electronic bubble memory system is aimed toward direct replacement of present flight tape recorders which have a high rate of failure due to the tape transport mechanism. A small 60k bit bubble recorder has been built to demonstrate the feasibility of this approach. It consists of six 10k bit chips mounted in three separate packages operating as a FIFO at 150 KHz bubble data rate. In addition to a FIFO the bubble recorder can be organized as a block oriented memory and also can be operated asynchronously to very low frequencies adding dimensions of flexibility and reliability not found in the present tape recorder system. Recorder nonvolatility is achieved by power shutdown protection circuits and a magnetically closed structure which also prevents magnetic contamination of surrounding equipment. A 10-8detection error rate is achieved with a 300μV detector signal at 150 kHz using power strobing and d.c. restore. Projection on a 50M bit prototype recorder is made. A 105bit chip capacity is proposed based on the electronic cost and MTBF considerations. This prototype operating at 150 kHz is capable of meeting or surpassing the capacity, data rate and reliability specifications of most present flight tape recorders."
"A method is presented for utilizing the loop-to-loop functional independence of multiloop bubble memory devices. The locations of the defective loops are stored in inexpensive flag chips which are located at rows of memory chips. A statistical analysis is presented to determine the number of redundant loops needed on each memory chip to guarantee a given data capacity. A memory System cost reduction of up to 50% is demonstrated for the fault-tolerant scheme chosen as a model."
"Discontinuous changes in the magnetization of a ferromagnetic sample similar to the rapid changes in magnetization which take place in the Barkhausen Effect are caused by the propagation of a fatigue crack. These changes were detected through induced voltages on a pick-up coil surrounding the specimen, which can be quantitatively related to the crack growth. Simultaneous acoustic emission measurements confirmed that the magnetization changes were due to the fatigue crack. In some cases the resolution of the Barkhausen technique is superior to the resolution of acoustic emission measurements."
"One of the most important problems in maintaining self-sustained bubble domains in the top layer of double-layer epitaxial garnet films is stability of the magnetic saturation in the bottom layer, Because the stability depends on the nucleation field of the bottom layer, it is desirable to minimize any defects in the bottom layer. For this purpose double-layer epitaxial films were cut by a chemical etching technique to prevent any bad effect due to defects or magnetic spin disorder in the film edges. This method caused a drastic effect on the stability of the magnetic saturation in the bottom layers showing a high yield of more than 95 %. The second problem is the temperature sensitivity of the self-sustained bubbles which proved to depend on the temperature sensitivity of the characteristic length of the top layer. In the best result less than 3 %/°C was obtained so far. The self-biasing effect in the double layer epitaxial garnet films is discussed with respect to the wall energies and anisotropy fields of the various top and bottom layer films. The maximum effective field of 30 Oe was obtained in a (YSm)3GaIG/(EuEr)3GaIG system and 6 μm-diameter bubbles were driven by a conventional T-bar circuit."
"A new magnetic recording technology providing data storage at high areal density with rapid access by laser beam addressing is presented. Information is written on a magnetic buffer medium at high linear density by a conventional head having a tracking width of dimensions readily realizable. A narrow section of the written track is thermomagnetically transferred onto a second magnetic medium by a focused laser beam, for storage. Reading is performed by thermomagnetically retransferring, using the addressing laser beam, the required narrow data track from the second to the first magnetic medium, where it is read by a conventional magnetic head which may have a tracking width substantially larger than the stored tracks. Results indicate the feasibility of storing data at densities as high as 7900 flux changes per cm (20,000 per inch) and 790 tracks per cm (2000 per inch)."
 "The ternary solvent system, BaO-BaF2- B2O3has been examined to produce several magnetic bubble garnet films by liquid phase epitaxy. Contrary to the conventional PbO-B2O3solvents, the BaO-BaF2-B2O3Solvents are characterized by negligible volatility and slight toxicity. High quality bubble films of gallium- or aluminum-substituted rare earth iron garnets have been successfully deposited on GGG"
"A method of propagating inverted Néel wall sections along walls which serve as tracks for shift registers is described. The inverted Néel wall sections are bounded by a Bloch line on one end and a crosstie on the other. The Bloch line has high mobility and can be moved controllably. It is not necessary to move the crosstie in this propagation method. Also, a method of observing inverted Néel wall sections using the Kerr effect is described."
"Self-consistent computations of a number of high-density transitions are carried out on the basis of an improved magnetization curve model describing stable and reversible magnetization changes even on minor loops. Readback voltages and peak-shifts computed on plated metallic thin films show considerable differences from those calculated by the superposition method. This indicates that evaluation of high-density recording performance should be done by self-consistent computations. Results obtained also suggest that a recording density as high as 10,000 flux reversals per cm is attainable using metallic thin films of high coercive force (e.g. 700 Oe)."
"The growth of LPE films 3.8 cm in diameter has been achieved under conditions which lead to a high yield of defect free material suitable for bubble domain circuits. Temperature control to ±0.1°C, larger melt volumes, more precise timing of runs and an increase in saturation temperature of the melt to 970°C all contribute to the improved quality. The change to 970°C also sharply reduces platinum attack. Films having a collapse field controlled to ±1 Oe can be grown in yields exceeding 35%."
"An analysis is presented for calculating the magnetic forces at various joints of a chain of spherical beads in a magnetic field. A potential energy approach has been used. The analysis shows that the chain is markedly weak at the first joint even though it has the maximum magnetic field. Contrary to intuition, the second joint is the strongest. Therefore, the beads in a long chain can be removed one by one up to a point. An attempt to remove additional beads will break the chain at the first joint. The strength of the second joint can be varied and made weaker than the first joint when the beads are separated by a thick coating of paramagnetic material. The calculations are supported qualitatively by a simple experiment."
"An all-electronic system for automatic setting of the transfer coefficients of operational amplifiers in analog and hybrid computers is described. It is built on the basis of magnetic semiconductor code- and voltage-to-resistance converters. The main features in which the system differs from the conventional types [1] - [3] are the use of internal long-term memory and nonprecision resistors. This results in a reduction of the volume and cost of the converters' hardware. The transfer coefficient setting unit is simplified and high accuracy of conversion is maintained."
"Although the literature on the bubble logic devices is limited, the concepts and device configurations are diverse. In conductor-access devices, logic can be performed by bubble transfer operations. In field-access devices, logic can be performed by providing alternative paths which are selected by interaction between bubbles. Examples include the conjugate logic gates, the resident-bubble cellular logic, and the chevron 3-3 circuits. Logic can also be performed by counting bubbles, such as in the symmetric switching function implementation. The various mechanisms for implementing bubble logic are all described by truth tables. To assess their efficiency, they are compared in terms of space and delay when they are used to implement the same logic element - a full adder. They are all comparable except for the resident-bubble cellular logic which requires excessive space and delay. However, it is important to point out that only the symmetric switching function devices offer rewrite-ability to eliminate the part number problem, and accommodation for a large number of inputs to ease interconnection and delay equalization problems."
"Long wavelength ac bias record sensitivity is computed utilizing a model in which both longitudinal and vertical record fields are considered. It is assumed that the recorded magnetization is related by an anhysteretic susceptibility tensor to the signal field. At each depth in the tape the signal field is evaluated where the bias field amplitude is equal to the tape coercivity. Neither the effects of demagnetizing fields nor spreads in particle switching fields are included. The calculation yields excellent quantitative agreement with experimental sensitivity and correlates well with the shape of measured sensitivity vs. bias curves. The predictions of this model are compared in detail with those calculated utilizing solely longitudinal fields."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Design considerations are made on the superconducting magnet as a Maglev pad. The superconducting magnet, called L-type because of its geometry, has two superconducting coils. One is vertically oriented for thrust and guidance, while the other is horizontally oriented for suspension, in one cryostat. The two superconducting coils are both 4 m in length, extremely long in comparison with those that have been constructed so far. Winding techniques of such long coils and structure of a cryostat meeting the contradictory requirements of light weight and solidity are discussed. One of the guiding philosophies of this project was to construct a superconducting magnet with easy operation and simple maintenance, keeping a practical train in mind. In order to meet these requirements, all operating controls, liquid helium inlet valves and current leads were located on the front panel of the cryostat."
"A theoretical model for the relationship among magnetic quantities describing the one- versus two-dimensional field in a permanent magnet is developed. The model is applied to two problems: 1) determination of the direction of the residual magnetism and 2) finding the magnetic flux distribution in a magnet stabilized in air. The vector potential equation in a form unified for both problems is derived and transformed into a partial-difference algorithm. The numerical line-iteration procedure is described and used to solve these problems for a six-pole permanent magnet rotor of an electrical alternator."
"The following is a brief description of the operation principle and the circuit configuration of a new dc-ac converter proposed by the authors. This device is constructed by a magnetic circuit of unusual shape and has a number of excellent characteristics in the operation. Therefore dc voltage can be converted to alternating sine wave voltage with an optional frequency, and even if the load current is increased, the values of the output voltage and its frequency are constant over a wide range."
 "Under certain circumstances, when replaying prerecorded tapes, a reversal of head-tape motion causes a simple time reversal of the output. The occurrence of this phenomenon depends entirely upon the characteristics of the reproduce channel. Motion reversal invariance occurs when the time dependent part of the reproduce channel impulse response displays either of two types of symmetry;in the frequency domain this is equivalent to a quasi-linear phase response."
"Magnetostriction measurements have been made on a series of compacted powder samples of oxide pigments used in magnetic recording, to provide information for the evaluation of the role of magnetostriction in the recording process. Two composition series were measured at 294 K: one from γFe2O3through a range of partial reductions to Fe3O4, and another from 0 to 4 at. % Co in γFe2O3; also samples of CrO2. In addition, a 2 at. % Co-doped Fe3O4powder was measured as a function of field and temperature from 77 to 300 K. Magnetostriction was measured using a semiconductor strain gage on a rotating sample, in fields up to 9 kOe."
"Investigations have been made on the fabrication of accurate and uniform T-bar circuits. Chrome masks are preferable to emulsion masks, and furthermore, a minimum exposure and intimate contact have been demonstrated to be necessary for accurate and uniform pattern imaging on the AZ1350 resist. A newly developed chemical etchant, a nitric acid-base solution without ferric chloride, can almost eliminate undercutting of permalloy elements. Application of spin-on-glass prior to Permalloy evaporation can result in excellent step coverage at the places where T-bar circuits overlap conductors. Large memory chips having a capacity of 16 × 103bits and a storage density of 105bits/cm2have successfully been fabricated."
"Methods of placing parallel domain walls in magnetic films for a cross-tie memory are described, and a new technique is proposed which involves magnetic annealing at an elevated temperature after the film has been fabricated."
"An equation is presented for the variation of magnetic torque with deviations from ideal"
"Approximate analytic solutions for transient and steady-state 180° domain-wall motion in bulk magnetic material are obtained from the dynamic torque equations with a Gilbert damping term. The results for the Walker region in which the transient solution approaches the familiar Walker steady-state solution are presented in a slightly new form for completeness. An analytic solution corresponding to larger drive fields predicts an oscillatory motion with an average value of the velocity which decreases with drive field for reasonable values of the damping parameter. These results agree with those obtained by others from a computer solution of the torque equation and those obtained by others with the assumption of a very large anisotropy field."
"Theory relating the temperature coefficient of the zero point and digit disturb threshold to the random anisotropy field is discussed. Certain assumptions about the relationship between the random anisotropy of ripple theory and the uniaxial anisotropy field yield relationships that predict the temperature sensitivity of these properties fairly well in Permalloy films. The temperature dependence of most disturb properties appears to be related to the temperature coefficient of the uniaxial anisotropy field from an experimental point of view. Several process variations that can affect the temperature coefficient of the uniaxial anisotropy field are considered."
"With the expected change to SI (MKS) units, now is the appropriate time to attempt a uniform set of units and symbols for magnetic quantities."
"Switching thresholds of plated wires were determined with slowly applied external magnetic fields, using both torquemeter and ac techniques. The samples included wires having helical easy-direction angles of 0°, 24°, 30°, and 60°. A study was made of the dependence of switching threshold HCon the angle θ between applied field and wire axis. Good agreement was found with the relationH_{C}(\\theta)=H_{C}(0)/\\cos \\thetafor all helical angles and for θ as high as 85°. It is concluded that with the cylindrical film geometry only the axial component of external field is effective in quasi-static switching over wide ranges of field direction and helical angle."
"A dynamical model is described which permits calculation of the excitation currentIas a function of time in a laminated grain-oriented (G-O) steel transformer core. The independent variable is the magnetic flux density or, equivalently, the coil voltage less theIRdrop associated with the resistanceRof the windings. Recent observations on flux reversal mechanisms in GO steel indicate that, in the range of magnetic field intensities typically present in transformer cores, the important reversal processes are the motion of long 180° domain walls continuous across grain boundaries and the motion of 90° walls within individual grains. These processes are represented in the model by two subcircuits connected in series. Each subcircuit consists of an inductive element in parallel with a linear resistor which accounts for the eddy current losses accompanying the flux change. The properties of each inductive element (flux vs. current) reflect the two wall motion mechanisms, respectively, in the limit of zero frequency. This model is capable of faithfully simulating minor loop behavior as well as the response to complex waveforms; e.g., the superposition of two or more frequencies. The circuit equations are solved, and some results of computer calculations using a program that implements this model are presented."
"A field-theoretical approach is used to analyze the subject of magnetic induction heating of thin circular plates by planar coils. Closed-form solutions for the electric and magnetic fields are found to the basic field problem of a single circular loop carrying current at a frequency ω in the presence of a plate characterized by a permeability μ and conductivity σ. By using these fields, expressions are derived for the complex Poynting vector at the surface of the plate, and for the induced EMF in the coil. The theory is extended to include multiturn coils and a field-dependent permeability, and a specific multiturn coil and plate combination is chosen as an example. The complex amplitude of the magnetic field and the Poynting vector are calculated along the surface of the plate using iterative methods to assure self-consistency with the field dependent permeability of the plate. By using Fourier transform techniques, the transient coil current and coil voltage waveforms are calculated under the experimental conditions used to take data on the sample coil and plate. The absorbed power is calculated from these waveforms and is found to be within 10 percent of the measured power absorption for all levels of operation from 50 to 2000 W. The calculated coil current waveform is compared with the measured waveform and is found to be in very good agreement in both shape and period."
"Finite element analysis techniques are being used widely to predict the field distribution in magnetic structures having complex boundary geometries and nonlinear B-H characteristics. In situations where two or more magnetic fields interact, care must be taken to ensure that the principle of superposition applies before adding the fields directly. The magnetic Reynolds number can be used to predict linearity, and in those cases where superposition is invalid, the finite element algorithm must be applied repeatedly in an incremental fashion to ensure accuracy. This procedure is illustrated by considering the magnetic field distribution inside a ferromagnetic bar rotating in a magnetic flux set up by a two pole structure. Results obtained by linearly superposing direct and generated cross axis fields at a particular speed of rotation are compared with the magnetic field distributions resulting from repeated application of the finite element algorithm for incremental step changes in angular velocity. Comparison of the neutral axis angle/speed characteristic for the linear and incremental models shows a significant difference between the two approaches."
"The Colorado method for the solution of the non-linear form of Laplace's, Poisson's, and the diffusion partial differential equations is explained. Various boundary conditions can be satisfied. The transformation of the partial differential equation into a large set of finite difference equations is given. The discretization is based on a grid system consisting of two sets of orthogonal grid lines. The resulting meshes are nonuniform. Successive line overrelaxation method is used for the solution of the nonlinear equations in two steps. For the improvement of convergence, two methods of acceleration of convergence are described."
  "A method for the simple construction of the discrete Fourier analyzer operating in real time is described. The simplicity is realized by using two basic analog elements, i.e., magnetic analog memory elements and Fourier coefficient calculators using operational amplifiers. Practically, the real-time Fourier analyzer for the calculation of the Fourier coefficients with a scheme of 12 ordinates is constructed. The zero drift of this analyzer is ± 0.1 percent/hour for the full scale. The minimum amplitude of analyzable input signal is about 0.02 in ratio to the maximum amplitude. The maximum sampling frequency is approximately 3 kHz and the minimum sampling frequency has no practical limitation. As an example for its application, the magnetic torque curves are analyzed in on-line real time. The analyzed results almost agree with the results calculated by a general-purpose computer in off-line. This real-time Fourier analyzer is simple and suitable especially for the analysis of the signals changing slowly."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An inhomogeneous applied field can cause an instability in a strip domain that can be used for the controlled generation of bubble domains. These instabilities have been studied experimentally and theoretically by means of a variational calculation. Good agreement is obtained between wall shape calculations and experimental data. Predictions of cutting current as a function of strip width deviate, however, for widths larger than ∼5.5h due to the limitations of the model and the experimental conditions."
"The drive field required for rapid constant-rate magnetization reversal in 50-50 Ni-Fe tapes rises approximately linearly in accord with Ganz saturation wave theory only after an initial nearly level step. Analysis of the initial stages of magnetization reversal in terms of the motion of domain walls severely bowed against the wall surface tension by the inhomogeneous eddy-current field leads to the square root dependence of the step field on switching rate reported by Winter et al. [1]."
"The magnetic stiffness within ferromagnetic thin films, considered as a tendency of the film to be homogeneous with respect to the distribution of magnetization directions, is defined on the basis of the domain structure as well as of the spin wave theory. The transversal stiffness parameter in thin films is calculated by means of the band model approach within a Hartree-Fock type of approximation. This parameter depends on the film thickness and, what is particularly interesting, on the surface effects."
"Several effects accompanying the propagation of electromagnetic waves through magneto-ordered media are discussed. First the information writing obtained by cooling through the Néel point of the antiferromagnetic substrate coupled by exchange interaction with the magnetic film is considered. By changing the exchange coupling it is possible to write and steadily retain arbitrary microdomain configurations. Peculiarities of magnetooptic effects were predicted by us and discovered in magnetically gyrotropic media with preset space distribution of magnetization. At the end, data on the photomagnetic effect in film of Mg-Mn ferrite are discussed."
"The main results of the investigations of pulse switching in thin magnetic films with uniaxial anisotropy which have been obtained in Moscow State University are reviewed. Simultaneous investigation of integral switching properties, inner effective field, and dynamic domains produced during pulse switching has increased our understanding of bi-directional incoherent rotation mechanism and found new peculiarities of the pulse switching by domain boundary propagation. A new variety of incoherent rotation which manifests itself at strong fields has been found. It has been also found that the curve representing the pulse field dependence of an inverse switching time in the general case consists of five distinct regions. The relation between these regions and the switching mechanisms are discussed."
  "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A configurational coordinates model in the fully quantum theoretical treatment of the alkali-halide exciton laser is used. The theory predicts a correlation between threshold pumping power and the Stokes shift. The predictions of the theory are compared with the observed characteristics of laser action on the first exciton peak of KBr. The observed spectral narrowing is in good agreement with theoretical prediction."
"A large-aperture cold-cathode electron beam with 150 kV and 0.4 A/cm2has been used to sustain 1-μs discharges in a CO2-laser mixture of 3/(1/2)/1. The electron density produced in the gas was approximately3.9 \\times 10^{13}cm-3and thus for 1 atm a discharge power density of 150 J/1μs was achieved at 5.4 kV/cm for the sustainer electric field. The time-dependent gain for the 001-100 transition has been measured. Taking the experimental values of the discharge power, the gain has also been calculated using a kinetics program and a solution of the Boltzmann equation for the fractional power transfer. The good agreement between the experimental and calculated results gives confidence that the performance of cold-cathode electron-beam sustained-discharge CO2lasers can be predicted."
"The operation of a CW CO2laser pumped by vibrationally excited nitrogen generated by the reaction of nitric oxide with atomic nitrogen is reported. 15-mW output power at an overall chemical efficiency of 1 percent has been obtained. The population inversion density of the system has been determined from gain measurements."
"Investigation of the congruent melting rare-earth aluminum garnet Gd3Sc2Al3O12(GADSCAG) has been made. The optimum crystal growth parameters for the undoped material are a rotation rate of 20 r/min and a growth rate of 4.6 mm/hr along the\\langle111\\rangledirection. For Nd3+-doped crystals the linear growth rate is 2 mm/h. The optical properties of Nd:GADSCAG which are of interest for laser operation were also determined. The stimulated emission cross section of the 1.06-μ transition in Nd3+at room temperature is(3.2 \\pm 0.3) \\times 10^{-19}cm2, the fluorescence lifetime is256 \\pm 8 \\mus at an Nd3+ion density of 1 atomic percent in the crystal and the integrated peak absorption cross section in the strongest pump band (0.81 μ) is3.8 \\times 10^{-19}cm2, A comparison of the CW laser performance of identical ND:YAG and Nd:GADSCAG rods is presented."
"Investigations of a moderate-volume high-pressure electrical discharge that employs volumetric photoionization of the gas by ultraviolet radiation are reported. Operation of the discharge in a self-sustained mode at high values of energy input for several microseconds duration has been achieved. Use of the method in a pulsed electrical CO2-laser configuration has yielded an optical energy extraction of 40 J/1 atm at a conversion efficiency of 24 percent. Experiments related to the physics of the photoionization process and parametric behavior of the discharge and laser are described."
"In the present treatment of performance characteristics of laser systems, having homogeneous line broadening, a radial gain profile is taken into account. It will be shown that such a profile, which may be induced by the laser beam itself, changes the curvature of the phase front, so that additional radiation transport in the radial direction takes place. It turns out that for many practical systems the radial radiation transport can be comparable to the radiation gained directly from the medium and therefore may not be neglected. Furthermore, it will be shown how the additional radial radiation transport affects the oscillating frequency. Conditions are deduced in which mode competition leads to the survival of the mode having highest radiation intensity. This is not the one closest to the line center as found in systems where radial radiation transport is not taken into account. Treating this problem we approximate medium parameters by a quadratic profile so that the modes have a Gaussian structure. The oscillation frequency, determined on one side by the dispersion of the active medium and on the other side by the spontaneous decay of the upper level, is discussed. The frequency shift is not very sensitive to changes of mirror reflectivity but increases considerably with increasing thermal effects. Numerical calculations show, for instance, that for a semiconfocal system a frequency shift close to 0.5 in units of normalized frequency can be predicted."
"The gain of a uniformly excited HF/DF TEA laser was measured to be 76 dB/m for HF and 39 dB/m for DF. The gain is followed by an absorption which decays with10-50\\mus time constants attributed to V-T and V-R relaxation processes, Limited measurements on the HCl system show similar absorption that persists for about 50 ms, limiting the pulse repetition rate."
"The simultaneous temporal and spatial equations governing the light intensity and electronic molecular level population in a laser-illuminated medium were solved numerically for the cases of metal-free and chloroaluminum phthalocyanine. An energy model, consistent with the low-intensity spectroscopic data, was constructed, and the rate constants for transitions and absorption cross sections were varied to get simultaneous agreement with several independent literature experimental data at high irradiation intensities. The results, providing a self-consistent picture of the molecular rate constants within the assumed model, are compared with other results obtained by direct experimentation (where available) and to other approximate calculation methods."
"Three experimental realizations of a technique for generating intense laser pulses with continuously variable and precisely controllable durations in the subnanosecond and nanosecond range are described. Laser pulses with durations ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 ns at power levels up to 0.3 MW have been generated. Applications of the technique to optical pulse shaping, cavity dumping of mode-locked pulses, and optical isolation of amplifiers are discussed."
"Self-focusing and self-phase modulation limit the power and distort the output of mode-locked neodymium-glass lasers. Self-focusing alone, only one aspect of the complicated development of pulsed mode-locked oscillation, is considered. Theoretical calculations show that the fundamental transverse mode is not stable in high peak-power laser oscillators. Self-focusing distortion of the transverse intensity distribution limits peak-power density to a few times 108W/cm2. At high power the transverse field distribution changes drastically from one cavity transit to the next, and similar changes occur within individual mode-locked pulses."
"Relative values of surface-damage thresholds of transparent dielectrics are calculated for various angles of incidence and polarization. The analysis is valid for damage mechanisms that depend on the electric-field strengths in the immediate vicinity of a damage site. The mechanisms of small inclusions and avalanche breakdown are shown to be included in the range of validity. An example is presented to illustrate how the results can be used in the design of damage-resistant optical components."
"The composition of a sealed discharge in He-N2-CO2and He-CO2mixtures was studied with a quadrupole mass spectrometer. A modulated molecular beam sampling technique allowed direct measurement of the molecular, atomic, and ionic species produced in the discharge. Effective formation and destruction rates were measured for various species. In particular, the nitrogen oxides, NO and NO2, are formed in sufficient quantities to affect the performance of CO2lasers. In the He-N2-CO2mixture the dominant ion changes from CO-2to NO+, while in He-CO2, O+2becomes the major ion."
"Minority carrier lifetime in the active layer of GaAs-Ga1-x- AlxAs double-heterostructure lasers has been found to decrease during gradual degradation by measuring the lasing delay time. This phenomenon is ascribed to a decrease in the internal quantum efficiency. Furthermore, a development of the inhomogeneity in the active layer is deduced from observations of the change of near-field patterns, light intensity versus current characteristics, and photoluminescence patterns."
"A periodic pulsed output from a CO2waveguide laser caused by relaxation oscillations in the excitation circuit is reported. The resulting laser output has a peak power of 16 W and 100-ns duration with very good amplitude stability. The possibility of gain switching is postulated and outputs of the laser under CW andQ-switched operation are compared."
"Simultaneous laser action on CO2and N2O transitions has been achieved in a helical resistor-pin-type transversely excited (TE) laser. The laser emits typically a power of 10-100 kW in a 700-ns-long pulse which consists basically of two overlapping pulses, the peaks of which do not coincide, and which can be associated with the CO2and N2O emission, respectively. The conditions of optimal operation are described and the effects of some parameter changes are indicated."
"Measurements made of the small-signal gain and time-resolved spectral output of a flash-initiated D2-F2/CO2chemical transfer laser system are reported. Small-signal gain measurements indicate a possible lack of rotational equilibration among the rotational levels of the CO2during the DF-CO2V-V energy transfer process. Time-resolved spectral output of this system, operated as a laser oscillator, is presented as verification of the small-signal gain results."
"A technique based on the two-quantum photoeffect has been used to measure second-order intensity correlations, pulse shapes from a mode-locked argon ion laser, and time delays in the picosecond domain. Good agreement was obtained between the mode distribution computed from the intensity autocorrelation data and that observed with a scanning Fabry-Perot when the laser was run in the mode-locked condition. Additionally, the contrast ratios observed in both the mode-locked and free-running condition were in good agreement with a theory by Weber and Danielmeyer."
"Operational parameters for pulsed-ion laser operation in nitrogen, oxygen, krypton, xenon, and argon in the wavelength range from 350 to 460 nm are presented."
"The error rate has been measured for an atmospheric twin-channel polarization modulated optical link in order to ascertain the applicability of a photon-counting digital model to the design of a simple realistic system. Error probabilities in the range10^{-2}-10^{-7}at 76 Mb/s were measured in different atmospheric conditions, for a path of 3.6 km. The agreement between experimental results and theoretical ones is satisfactory and justifies the use of the model in the design."
"The drastic effect that a weak axial magnetic field can have upon the output of an He-Cd+ metal vapor laser is reported. A 37-percent increase in output power has been observed for a tube current of 55 mA and magnetic field strength of 70 G. Also described are parametric and spectroscopic studies performed to elucidate the cause of the large power output change."
"Experimental and theoretical studies of third-harmonic generation (THG) in the chalcopyrite semiconductor CdGeAs2are presented. The phase-matching configurations for THG are analyzed from the irreducible components point of view. A theory of the bound electron and free-carrier contribution to the third-order susceptibility is presented. The experimental results are given. The effective nonlinear coefficient for type-II THG is mainly due to the free-carrier contribution, and for a hole concentration of5 \\times 10^{16}/cm3it is measured to be(13 \\pm 6)10^{-11}ESU. The practical applications of THG in CdGeAs2are discussed."
"Recent progress with diodes operating at infrared wavelengths Suggests the possibility of triode amplifiers for this frequency range. The potential of such devices is considered theoretically; An analysis based on a specific model device is carried out. The results indicate that power gain greater than unity is possible at\\lambda = 10\\mu. Although the model device is difficult to construct, it is an assemblage of components which are today individually within the state of the art. Infrared triode oscillators appear also to be possible."
"The operation of a simple passively mode-locked 5800-Å dye laser is reported. A single active medium, solution of rhodamine 6 G and diethyloxadicarbocyanine iodide (DODCI) in glycol flowing as an unconfined liquid film, is used for the simultaneous production of gain and non-linear absorption."
"A double-discharge TEA CO2mode-locked oscillator/ amplifier system, which produces a maximum energy output of approximately 10 J in a single nanosecond pulse, is described. The mode-locked oscillator operates on at least four lines simultaneously. The characteristics of the amplifying medium are also discussed."
"The results of local investigations of Ar+-laser plasma parameters by a new pulsed single-probe method are presented. The experiments were carried out in a 10-mm-bore tube at discharge currents of 60-80 A and argon pressure of 0.2-1 torr. Electron concentrations and temperature distributions over the discharge-tube radius have been determined. Based on the results obtained, a number of Ar+-laser plasma parameters have been estimated. Our results are compared with the available model theories of the Ar+ laser."
"Small-signal gain measurements on a large number of vibrational-rotational lines in a CO-laser plasma have led to the vibrational distribution from the\\upsilon = 2to\\upsilon = 31level. The relative influence of V-V and V-T relaxation processes is discussed."
"A recent analysis of the saturation behavior of the optical gain in semiconductor lasers has predicted a strong spectral hole-burning effect. With an improved treatment of the intraband relaxation in the analysis the effect disappears entirely."
"A UV-sustained electric-discharge CO2laser has demonstrated optical energy-density extraction and long-pulse performance competitive with currente-beam sustained devices. Atmospheric-pressure CO2-N2-He mixtures seeded with tri-n-propylamine are volumetrically photoionized using the 1200-1700-Å radiation from a spark-array source. Laser pulse lengths up to 37 μs have been achieved with a specific energy of 47 J/1.atm. The best specific energy demonstrated was 60 J/1.atm in a 23-μs pulse."
"Characteristics of a partially metal-clad-dielectric-slab waveguide are described. In this waveguide a propagating field is confined two-dimensionally by the difference of effective indices of refraction between a dielectric-clad region and a metal-clad region. Experimental results are also described."
"A 3.5-μm He-Xe laser has been used to experimentally observe improvements in mode intensity profiles by shaping the cavity aperture. Significant improvements over circular apertures were achieved with elliptical and serrated mirror shapes."
"A pulsed argon discharge inside a CW-laser cavity is used to modulate the CW-laser output via the transient gain/loss at various lasing wavelengths. Under short-pulse excitation (\\sim 0.6 \\mus), gain is found at four Ar(II) lasing lines, but losses are observed at 4880 and 5017 Å. A similar diagnostic device with broad-band capabilities and based on an ion-laser-pumped dye laser is proposed."
"Theoretical radiation patterns from a multilayer model of a dielectric waveguide are fitted to single mode experimental profiles of three symmetrical double-heterojunction cavities to test the adequacy of the model and study the effect of the dielectric parameters on the beam pattern. The radiation from the normal TE modes is approximated by plane waves, while for the TM modes it is given by boundary value solutions of the Maxwell equations. The adequacy of the theory is shown by the faithfulness of the fit out to large beam angles and low intensities, and the agreement of the adjusted cavity parameters to the experimental values. Small changes in either the cavity thickness or the dielectric constant of the internal n-type region have similar first order effects on the angular position of the minima in the profile as well as in the amplitude of the sidelobes. Depths of the minima decrease with departures of the structure from planarity. Pattern distortion from mode coupling at the interfaces and facets is not observed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The performance characteristics of several types of flashlamp- and N2-laser-pumped dye prism ring lasers have been investigated. A tuning range covering the whole visible spectrum was observed with bandwidths from 0.5 nm to 0.03 pm. Diffraction-limited output with power level up to 150 kW in multimode operation at high input energies and 2 kW in single-mode operation of the flashlamp-pumped version was obtained in the spectral range of rhodamine 6G."
"In a recent paper the author proposed a self-focusing theory based on linear stability analysis of the quasi-optical equation [1]. Strictly, the theory applies only to a plane wave of infinite aperture. In this paper the theory is extended to beams of finite aperture, which may be initially convergent or divergent."
"A summary of measurements of radiative lifetimes for 34 separate upper laser levels in noble-gas ion systems is presented. The technique used is pulsed excitation by threshold-energy electron impact followed by multichannel delayed-coincidence analysis. Results are specifically given for the3pstates of Ne+, the4pstates of Ar+, the5pstates of Kr+, and the6pstates of Xe+. The errors in measurement range from ≈ 2 to 6 percent."
"Pulsed discharges in arsenic vapor have produced laser oscillation on a number of wavelengths in the near infrared. The transitions are assigned to the neutral arsenic atom."
 "Direct measurements of the gain coefficient of a TEA double-discharge CO2laser versus wavelength show that while the overall wavelength dependence is in good agreement with that predicted from the model wherein the rotational levels are in thermal equilibrium,P(20)in the 10.4-μm band andP(22)in the 9.4-μm band have a gain coefficient that is ∼10-percent high. These results are interpreted as evidence for stimulated emission from \"hot bands\" by these laser lines. Other transitions in these two bands should also exhibit gain coefficients that have been enhanced to a lesser degree."
"Output-pulse observations are presented for a tranverse electrically initiated, helium-diluted HF laser pumped by the H2+ F2chain reaction. Performance of this laser is studied over a wide range of the gas composition and for initial pressures between 0.1 and 0.5 atm. The gas mixture was stabilized by premixing O2, F2, and He and flowing this mixture into a cold trap (84 K) before mixing with H2. Optimum conversion of electrical-initiation energy into laser energy was found for a 240-torr mixture with a mole ratio 1 F2:0.23 H2:0.08 O2:12 He which, when initiated with a 25-kV, 333-pF discharge, gave a pulse energy of 0.150 J. This corresponds to a ratio of laser output energy to electrical input energy of 144 percent. After unnecessary losses are taken into account, this ratio becomes 160 percent."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Several authors have considered the possibility of using stimulated Compton scattering as a source of tunable coherent far infrared radiation. For a finite photon-electron interaction region, it is known that the gain is small. It is shown that there is a significant increase in the photon-electron scattering cross section and hence in the gain when the scattering is performed resonantly in a longitudinal dc magnetic field. It is found that under these conditions appreciable gain is available for pulsed operation."
"The two-iodine-cell technique for obtaining spectra of molecular light scattering with strongly attenuated parasitic scattering is described. One cell is used to attenuate parasitic scattering light, the other to stabilize the laser frequency on the iodine absorption line."
"Efficient and stable hyperfine pumping of Cs133vapor has been achieved for extended periods of time with the use of a CW single-mode GaAs diode laser. Static matching of either hyperfine component of the 8521-Å D2line was performed by adjusting the dc injection current. As the pumping-beam intensity was increased continuously, the population of the depleted hyperfine level was monitored by the fluorescence caused by a weak, modulated probing beam. For the first time, it has been possible to display a complete depopulation of either one of the two ground-state hyperfine levels. These results provide new possibilities for cesium frequency standards, such as atomic-beam clocks without deflecting magnets. The construction of a cesium maser now becomes feasible."
"Doppler effects can be reduced or eliminated for two-photon absorption if the atoms are made to absorb one photon from each of two counter-propagating beams. We derive the line shape for the transition as a function of the frequency difference of the two beams and specifically consider the variation of the linewidth and of the efficiency of utilization of the available atoms."
"This paper investigates a novel type of optical fiber which is composed of three portions: the core, inner cladding, and outer cladding. It is assumed that the core has the largest refractive index of the three, and the outer cladding index is the next largest. When the index difference between the core and the inner cladding is much larger than that between the outer cladding and the inner, the new fiber has a stronger confinement property than a usual singly clad fiber in the single-mode region. It is also assumed that the inner-cladding thickness is larger than or comparable with the core radius. This confinement is the origin of the following three properties of potential importance in single-mode optical communication. 1) As compared with a singly clad fiber, the largest core area for single-mode operation is roughly twice. 2) The group delay arising from waveguide characteristics has an opposite sign against that of typical glass dispersion. (Singly clad fiber has a dispersion of the same sign.) 3) The field is much more tightly confined within the core as compared with a singly clad fiber. This minimizes extra attenuation due to absorption in the cladding."
"The intensity profile of the laser lines in pulsed xenon discharges is related to the Xe(IV) emission from the plasma \"pinch.\" The period of the observed intensity modulation of the xenon-laser pulse corresponds to the time for double traversal of the cavity. Evidence is reported for local saturation of two Ar(II) laser lines in pulsed argon discharges."
"The reaction of NO with active nitrogen produces, either directly or indirectly, vibrationally excited N2, which species can transfer energy to CO2yielding laser lines at 10.6 μ. Further, that the reaction of N atoms with NO yields N2in a vibrationally excited state has been verified. In this class of transfer laser, the discharge parameters are critical; different discharges produce species which can energize the transfer laser via different pumping mechanisms."
"Experimental studies of a CW transverse-flow chemical laser are reported. These studies include investigation of gas flow and mixing lengths, densities of chemical species in the reacting flow stream, and gas-additive effects on laser emission. This device has yielded the highest performance yet observed for CO chemical lasers with a specific output power of 65.5 J/g (29.7 kJ/1b) and a minimum chemical efficiency of 21 percent. It was found that additional chemical species are present in the flow stream beyond those predicted by a simple three-reaction model of the chemical kinetics. Gas additives have been found to give increases in total output power, and can also be used to enhance either high or low bands in the output spectrum."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The gain saturation properties of a double discharge CO2laser for nanosecond pulses are presented. The results found are in good agreement with those appearing in the literature."
"The nonlinear optical coefficient d36of CdGa2S4was measured to be 5 times larger than d31(LiNbO3). This large non-linearity is in good agreement with theory."
"HF infrared stimulated emission was observed from flash-initiated CHFCl2-NO and CH2FCl-NO mixtures above 165 nm. SeveralP(J)lines were detected between\\Delta\\upsilon (2 \\rightarrow 1)and (1 → 0) in the CHFCl2system, while only (1 → 0) lines were observed in the CH2FCl system. Addition of D2generated DF emission in the former system, whereas it was absent in the latter. Detailed parametric study, including the mass spectrometric analysis of flashed products, led us to conclude that the principal laser-pumping reaction is CHF + NO → CHFNO\\dagger→ HF\\dagger+ CNO. Other possible side reactions in these systems are discussed. No laser emission was detected from flashed CHF2Cl-NO mixtures under the same experimental conditions."
"In this correspondence we have developed the perturbation approach for the calculation of propagation constants for some of the practical slab waveguides and have shown the applicability of the approach to systems of practical interest."
"A technique for small-signal gain measurements for CW laser systems is described. The method is applied to the measurement of multimode small-signal gain coefficients of small-bore argon-ion laser transitions."
"Parametric generation of near infrared coherent light, tunable over the range 854-1410 nm, was obtained in an oscillator using a 3-cm crystal of cesium dihydrogen arsenate (CDA). Pumping was accomplished with 10-ns pulses of 532-nm light from a frequency-doubled Nd:YAG laser. Single-pass parametric gains of the order of 300 were obtained in the crystal. The infrared output pulses typically were 1 ns in duration, with a peak power of approximately 600 kW."
"This paper describes a new method for characterizing thin-film modulators which utilize TE\\rightleftarrowsTM wave conversion. The conversion is described in terms of a coupled wave model. The coupling constantkdescribes the strength of the coupling between the TE and TM waves. It is expressed in the formk = k_{pw}Cwhere kpwis the coupling constant of plane waves traveling through the relevant bulk medium. The coefficientCcontains the parameters which characterize the guide. The model allows the comparison of structures utilizing electrooptic films and electrooptic substrates. Our results show that in general for single mode films (those approximately a half-wavelength thick), modulators of either type are about equally effective. It is tacitly assumed that kpwis identical for each structure. For films which can support several modes (films a few wavelengths thick), the coefficient for devices utilizing electrooptic substrates approach zero. In contrastCapproaches unity for similar thick-film devices which use electrooptic films."
"Measurements of UV photoionization parameters for TEA CO2gas lasers are presented. Electron density and ionization decay times are given as a function of pressure for several gases and gas mixtures. Penetration depth of ionizing radiation in the gases is determined. The effect of selected additives on photoionization is demonstrated. The results show that a significant enhancement in electron density can be achieved. TheX-band microwave interferometer data provide additional insight into the mechanisms involved and further substantiate the effectiveness of the technique in high-powered CO2laser design."
"A review is given of recent experimental results on laser-induced electric breakdown in transparent optical solid materials. A fundamental breakdown threshold exists characteristic for each material. The threshold is determined by the same physical process as dc breakdown, namely, avalanche ionization. The dependence of the threshold on laser pulse duration and frequency is consistent with this process. The implication of this breakdown mechanism for laser bulk and surface damage to optical components is discussed. It also determines physical properties of self-focused filaments."
"A superradiant hydrogen fluoride (HF) laser is described in which an intense electron beam, propagating in a SF6and C2H6mixture, is used to initiate chemical reactions that produce vibrationally excited HF molecules. The variation of laser energy as a function of SF6pressure for fixed composition and as a function of composition at a fixed SF6pressure has been investigated. These experimental parametric curves are discussed in terms of the relevant physics. The maximum laser energy of 228 J in a 55- ns full-width-at-half-maximum (FWHM) pulse was obtained with a mixture of400-torr SF6and 40-torr C2H6. Measured efficiency for converting deposited beam energy to laser energy propagating in the forward direction was as large as 8 percent."
"The application of a polycrystalline ferroelectric ceramic Pb1-xLax(ZryTiz)1-(x/4)O3(called PLZT) electrooptic shutter is described for controlling the giant pulse emission of a ruby laser. The PLZT material hady = 65percent,z = 35percent, and the value ofxwas in the vicinity of 8 percent. Half-wave retardation switching was not possible with the PLZT shutter when 10-ns rise-time 70-ns-duration voltage pulses (fastQswitching) were applied. The increase insertion loss, due to less than half-wave retardation, resulted in laser pulsewidths that were wider and contained less energy than predicted by fastQ-switching theory. Since the PLZT material was damaged at relatively low power densities of between 5.6 to 8.5 MW/cm2, respectively, its use is restricted toQ-switching small output power."
"Measurements have been made of the third-order nonlinear-optical susceptibilities of gaseous infrared saturable absorbers. These coefficients are relevant to mode locking of infrared lasers such as CO2. The measurements are in good agreement with a theory based on a four-level model of the absorber. Earlier mode-locking observations are interpreted in light of the new data. The value of the transition moment and some other parameters of SF6are deduced from the measurements. For SF6atp = 1torr, the third-order nonlinear coefficient is in the range1-10 \\times 10^{-23}C.m/V3, when interacting waves differ in frequency by less than the molecular collision frequency. We find that the average dipole transition moment for SF6near theP(16)orP(20)lines of CO2is approximately 0.1-0.2 Debye. The nonlinear coefficient of CH3F is typically three orders of magnitude smaller than that of SF6."
"A method to construct electrooptic prism-array deflectors which is, in the author's view, the most promising device for application in digital systems is analyzed. Experiments agreed well with the analysis. An experimental deflector with nine elements showed 180 resolved individual spots when driven with a maximum voltage of ± 580 V. It is shown that this type of deflector is capable of resolving over one thousand Rayleigh points. For example, with fifty-four LiTaO3crystals with the dimension of0.2 \\times 0.8 \\times 21mm, one can have 1080 Rayleigh points for ± 64 V applied. The extinction ratio of this deflector is over 32 dB."
"Bending loss and impulse response of multimode fibers with graded-index core have been studied. A multimode fiber which has a large index difference is profitable because of low loss in bends. Impulse response of the fiber in which all of the possible modes are excited with the same intensity depends remarkably on the fourth-order term of the index profile. A small value of mode delay of 0.15 ns/km is estimated to be obtainable in a fiber having an optimum index profile and index difference ratio of 0.05 using incoherent light."
"The use of tapered reflectivity mirrors and shaped apertures in unstable resonators is shown to be an effective method for improving the mode properties. Mode intensity and phase profiles are smoothed and the mode discrimination ratio is increased. Results are presented illustrating the importance of diffracted waves from sharp mirror edges in determining these mode properties. A simple expression for estimating the diffractive contribution is given and is used to determine optimum mirror designs. Shaped mirrors and mirrors having amplitude and phase reflectivity tapers are studied. The concept of equivalent Fresnel zones is used to gain physical insight into the mode properties."
"Gain formulas are shown for the 10.4- and 9.4-μm CO2bands for the high-pressure broadening case to point out a new regime of operation for this laser. Computer-simulated results of this gain are presented as a function of wavenumber, with density equivalent pressure and population inversion ratio as parameters. The results show gain curves that suggest continuously tunable lasers over the entire 9.4- and 10.4-μm bands with no rotational structure."
"A differential absorption signal of 10.6-μ radiation by a CO2cell in the alternating presence and absence of a partially saturating beam on a different transition is observed as a function of increasing pressure of helium. The linear increase with pressure at low pressures is explained as a result of diffusion acting as a strong effective vibration relaxation rate. The behavior as a function over the entire observed pressure range is well described by combining simple collision and diffusion effects."
"The theory of optical gain in highly doped semiconductors employed for semiconductor lasers is developed based on the Green function approach. With the help of the analytical expression obtained for optical gain, the threshold properties of semiconductor lasers and their dependence on concentration of doping impurities and on temperature are studied. Results of numerical calculations of threshold characteristics for the most interesting cases are presented."
"The reflection and scattering properties of guided optical waves at a single groove discontinuity are studied in this paper. The groove is on the surface of an optical thin-film waveguide commonly used in integrated optics. Both the fundamental TE0and TM0modes are considered. The problem is treated by a boundary perturbation technique. The power reflection coefficient, the radiation patterns, and the power of waves scattered into the free space and the substrate are found. Numerical results from an example are given to illustrate the effect of the geometric shape of the groove."
"Mode-locked unidirectional traveling-wave oscillation of a He-Ne ring laser is theoretically shown to be possible by internal loss or phase modulation. It should have a higher peak power and shorter pulses than the conventional laser systems."
"Because of electron scattering, optimum exposure conditions for optical gratings written with a scanning electron microscope depend on the grating period. Experimentally determined exposure conditions are given for gratings of periods down to 230 nm deposited on both conducting and nonconducting substrates. Optimum exposures are shown to be in good agreement with theoretical predictions, but exposure latitude is less than predictions indicate."
"Laser oscillation in the near infrared has been found in pulsed discharges in phosphorus vapor. The laser transitions are assigned to the neutral phosphorus atom."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"HCL chemical laser action has been obtained from chloro compounds when HI was used as the source of H atoms. Laser action was produced on several\\upsilon = 3-2, 2-1, and 1-0 HCl transitions when initiated by transverse pulsed discharges in HI-He mixtures containing such chloro compounds as CCl4, CHCl3, and several Freons. Both HCl and HF lasing were observed when a Freon (C2Cl2F4) containing F as well as Cl was used. The measured wavelengths for these HCl lasers correspond to excellent atmospheric windows for transmission of infrared radiation. No HCl lasing was obtained when HBr, H2S, or H2were substituted for HI."
"Measurement of the relaxation time for transient bleaching of solutions of bis-(4-dimethylaminodithiobenzil)-nickel (BDN) explains observedQ-switch and mode-locking behavior. A pronounced solvent effect permits varying relaxation time by a factor of 5 down to times short enough to be considered for mode locking in special circumstances."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "Heating of intracavity solid-state materials causes isotropic and anisotropic variations in the index of refraction which lead to optical phase and amplitude distortions of the oscillating mode. Two important perturbations are discussed: stress birefringence in optically pumped laser rods and spherical aberration due to heating of intracavity elements, such as a nonlinear crystal, by the laser beam. While these perturbations are well determined, their effect on optical resonators cannot be inferred from the single-pass data in any simple way."
"Wave propagation in periodic waveguides is analyzed by decomposing the eigen Bloch waves into traveling-wave components. It is shown that the principal components consist of a primary forward wave, a primary backward wave, and their Bragg-scattered secondary waves. One important parameter is the coupling constantsdue to Bragg scattering, which relates the secondary wave to the respective primary wave. Laser threshold condition is then obtained by applying the continuity of tangentialEandHat the two boundaries. The results thus obtained are general and applicable to thin-film lasers with various waveguide structures. The laser threshold condition of thin-film Bragg lasers is expressed in terms of two effective reflection coefficients for easy comparison with conventional lasers. For appreciable reflection, a significant change either in the propagation constant or in the coupling constant is required. Two basic types of thin-film Bragg lasers are distributed-feedback (DFB) lasers in which Bragg scattering is confined to the active medium and distributed-Bragg-reflector (DBR) lasers in which Bragg scattering is limited to regions beyond the active medium. The threshold gain, frequency control, and mode selectivity for both types are analyzed and the analyses are applied to GaAs and Nd lasers. It is shown that DBR lasers should have a lower threshold gain and a better mode selectivity than DFB lasers. For distributed-feedback effect to play a significant role in thin-film Bragg lasers, the product kLintmust be greater than unity whereKis the distributed-feedback coefficient and Lintis the interaction length. Advantages for having periodic structures outside the active medium so as to relax constraints onkand Lintare also discussed."
"Measurements were made to determine the photocount statistics and photocount correlations of a CW dye laser operated with and without internal etalons to achieve narrow linewidth. In addition, estimates of the mean laser light intensity as a function of time were made from photocount count records and the use of a newly developed stochastic estimation procedure."
"Three new laser transitions of singly ionized carbon atoms were observed in pulsed discharges of CO, CO2, and C6H6. Laser output was observed at 6578.0, 5145.7, and 6783.6 Å of the CII spectrum."
"Some semiconductor lasers show long time delays when operated at a temperature above a characteristic critical value. This long time delay can only be explained in terms of a saturable absorption mechanism, and a recent model attributing this mechanism to the impurity band tails has successfully explained the kinetics and the current and temperature dependence of the delays. The model also predicts that the onset of long time delays is accompanied by a change in photon energy of the laser spectrum. Measurements of laser emission spectra over a range of temperatures have shown such changes in all our lasers with long time delays and this evidence validates the band tail saturable absorption model for long time delays."
"Transverse mode locking of the Laguerre forms with proper magnitudes and phases in an optical beam with circular cylindrical symmetry can produce a beam with time-varying spot size and intensity. The effect is demonstrated by locking two modes of the cylindrically symmetric set, TEM00qand TEM10qof an He-Ne 6328-Å laser with relative amplitudes 1 and 0.6, respectively. Verification of the time-varying spot was by sampling of the beam with an iris moved about the beam at constant radius. The shape and phase of the detected pulses agreed with predictions for the mode-locked beam. For a flat strip beam, the rectangular TEM00q, TEM20q, and TEM40qmodes were locked with relative amplitudes 1, 0.5, and 0.3, respectively. A beam with time-varying width resulted and was sampled with a slit."
"Intracavity coupling modulation proves to be useful for low-power nanosecond-pulse modulation. Some theoretical results are presented and it is shown that pulse distortions can be reduced by inserting an additional polarization coupler into the cavity. Experiments were carried out which support the theory."
"Infrared spontaneous and stimulated emission from Ho3+in BaY2F8is reported. In addition to the familiar5I_{7} \\rightarrow5I8transition at 2 μ,5F_{5} \\rightarrow5I5emission at 2.4μ and5I_{6} \\rightarrow5I7emission at 2.9μ are discussed. There are several unusual features of the 2-μ laser emission. At room temperature, phonon-terminated laser emission is observed at 2.171 μ. At 77 K a complex CW laser output is observed in a wavelength interval lying on the shoulder of a fluorescence line. The complex output is attributed to oscillation in transverse modes of the resonator. Oscillation is not observed in the strongest emission line, despite a large terminal state splitting of 310 cm-1. These results are explained on the basis of a theory developed earlier for transition metal ion lasers. The validity of the model is supported by demonstrating the tunability through loss modulation predicted by theory. The observation of these effects is made possible by the very low internal scattering loss in the crystals. The5F_{5} \\rightarrow5I5laser lines near 2.4 μ represent relatively low gain transitions with pulse durations limited by accumulation in a longer lived terminal state. The dynamics of laser emission indicate the possible absence of thermal equilibrium in the excited state. For the 2.9-μ transition the bottleneck posed by a longer lived terminal state may be eliminated by the addition of Eu3+or Pr3+, but laser emission could not be obtained."
 "A critical review is made of the available experimental data and the proposed theoretical explanations regarding long delays andQswitching in semiconductor lasers. It is shown that no model is completely satisfactory in explaining all the available data. Guidelines for developing a better theory are presented."
"For an inhomogeneous dielectric in which the dielectric constant ε depends onxonly, it has been shown that it is possible to consider modes propagating in thezdirection havingH_{x} = 0orE_{x} = 0such that other field components can be expressed in terms of Exand Hx. The usual TE and TM modes are obtained in the special case of noydependence of the fields. Explicit field patterns and the propagation constants have been obtained for a square-law medium."
"A method for calculating induced-emission cross sections in neodymium laser glasses, based on simple absorbance measurements, has been demonstrated. Absorption and emission transition probabilities of four silicate-base neodymium laser glasses have been characterized in terms of the Judd-Ofelt (JO) model of crystal-field-induced electric-dipole transitions. Absolute absorption intensities in 3669A, ED-2, LSG-91H, and S33 glasses were measured and used to determine three phenomenological intensity parameters for each glass which accounted for the measured intensities to within 5 percent (rms). Emission intensities between the metastable4F_{3/2}and terminal4I Jlevels were then calculated for each glass, together with the4F_{3/2}radiative lifetime, fluorescence branching ratios, and radiative quantum efficiency. Calculated values of these quantities for 3669A and S33 glasses are compared with measured values appearing in the literature. Using experimental line shapes for the4F_{3/2} \\rightarrow4I_{11/2}transitions at 1.06μ, induced-emission cross sections for these glasses were calculated."
"Rapid simultaneous multiple-wavelength tuning of a dye laser has been achieved electronically by inserting an acoustooptic beam deflector inside the laser cavity. A beam deflector and diffraction grating combination serve as the tuning element. By applying multiple-RF signals to the acoustooptic deflector, multiple-wavelength operation is readily obtained."
"Photoinitiated discharges between continuous electrodes have been stabilized in high-pressure (CO, He, N2) laser mixtures at 100 K. A 1/2-1 device, with restricted output aperture, has yielded 1.9-J/I atm (160 torr, 100 K) in smooth 240-μs-long pulses with an efficiency of 2 percent, representing a sevenfold improvement over previous results. The unrestricted output is estimated at 5.7-J/1 atm with 6-percent efficiency."
"A dye laser, pumped by the second harmonic of a flash-pumpedQ-switched Nd:YAG oscillator/amplifier chain is described. The dye laser produces 8-ns-long pulses with energies as great as 140 mJ and peak powers of 20 MW. At a repetition rate of 10 pulses/s, the average power obtained is 1.4 W and the conversion efficiency (532 nm to dye) is approximately 50 percent."
"The outputs of flash-lamp pumped rhodamine 6G and rhodamine B lasers have been mixed in a AgGaS2crystal. The generated difference frequency radiation has been tuned from 8.7 to 11.6 μm. Measurements of laser-induced damage of AgGaS2have been made in the region of 600 nm which show a rapid fall in threshold with decreasing wavelength."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Observations are presented on theJ-dependence of rotational relaxation in the CO200°1 vibrational level for mixtures of CO2, He, and N2. The experiment consists of injecting a saturating ∼2-ns pulse at theP(20)line in the 10.4-μ CO2band into a low-pressure CO2-laser amplifier while simultaneously monitoring the transient gain response of an overlapping weak probe beam in the 9.4-μ band restricted to operate on any of the transitionsP(10)-P(34). The data show that the decay times of the variousJstates in the CO200°1 level get progressively longer for increasing or decreasingJvalue centered about the perturbedJ = 19state. Such behavior may be expected to have a significant effect on the efficiency of energy extraction and pulse shapes in CO2amplifiers for nanosecond and, especially, subnanosecond laser pulses. An analysis using a coupled set of rate equations to describe the rotational level populations is presented in which consideration is given only to\\mid \\DeltaJ \\mid = 2changes in collision. The analysis, when compared with the data, indicates that collisions in which\\mid \\DeltaJ \\midchanges by more than two units must also be considered."
  "The longitudinal mode spectrum of a solid-state ion laser can be greatly simplified and stabilized by spacing the rod and the mirrors according to a simple rule: the optical path between each end mirror and the nearest end of the rod should be an integral multiple of the optical length of the rod. Application of this rule can reduce the number, increase and regularize the frequency spacing, symmetrically distribute the intensities, and increase the temporal stabilization of the oscillating longitudinal modes. These remarkable effects were demonstrated with a continuous Nd:YAG laser that was constructed with several different spacings of cavity elements. The rule is probably the result of absorption loss that is localized at the surfaces of the rod. Other models, limitations, and generalizations of the rule are also discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"We have observed the existence of hysteresis effects associated with the mode locking of a He-Ne laser operating at 6328 Å by a Ne cell when appropriate excitations, losses, lengths, and positions of both laser tube and Ne cell are chosen. The hysteresis effects manifest themselves in the pulsing rate, the pulse-width, and the power output."
"The general theory of the third-order electronic susceptibility has been specialized to some model systems in order to evaluate the associated nonlinear refractive index of solid materials. The results indicate oppositely signed terms of comparable magnitude, and it is found that the dominant positive contribution involves oscillator strengths connecting excited electronic levels. Some reported values of the nonlinear index n2for various glasses are discussed in relation to the model calculations."
"An analysis of the effects of higher order centrifugal distortion terms on C12O216-laser frequencies is presented. This analysis, coupled with recent high-accuracy measurements of C12O216-laser beat frequencies by Petersen et al. at the National Bureau of Standards, points out the weakness of existing frequency tables for highJlines. Expected values for bothHandLcentrifugal distortion coefficients are calculated, andJvalues for which these terms become important are discussed."
"Actinometric and time-to-threshold experiments with flash-initiated H2/F2/He mixtures have been modeled with the RESALE chemical laser code. Comparison of the salient features of both experiments with those predicted by the code determines the efficiency of our xenon flashlamp in dissociating F2. The results indicate that our 1000-J 20-μs full width at half maximum (FWHM) lamp is capable of dissociating 1.2 percent of the F2initially present in dilute F2/He mixtures."
"A pulsed-waveguide CO2laser is described for which no electronic pulser is required because the discharge properties of the waveguide laser and the external resistance and capacitance form a relaxation oscillator. Peak powers of 15 W were obtained at repetition rates up to 20 kHz for the 10-cm discharge."
"The \"dc\" Kerr constant of CS2has been measured at 10.6 μm and found to be(2.9 \\pm 0.8) \\times 10^{-8}statvolt-2cm. This yields a value of(2.1 \\pm 0.7) \\times 10^{-11}statvolt-2cm2for the nonlinear refractive index."
"1-μm laser emission was detected when NO or NO2 was flash-photolyzed, with or without dilution, in the vacuum UV above 165 nm. The emission was identified as the C(2π)→ A(2Σ +) (0,0) and the D(2Σ +) → A(2Σ +) (1,1) band transitions at 1.2237 and 1.1069 μm, respectively. The C → A(1,1l) and D → A(O,O) bands also lased weakly under better cavity conditions. The total intensity of the 1--μm emissions was found to vary linearly with flash energy, indicating that the pumping mechanism involves a one-photon excitation process. The effects of various additives (He, Ar, H2, CO, N2, O2, N2O, CO2, CF4, and SF 6) have been studied. When both CO2 and an excess amount of He or Ar were added to NO, 10.6-μm CO2-laser emission was observed concurrently with the 1-μm emission. The 10.6--μm emission is attributed to the nearresonant energy transfer process NO* (v) + CO2 (000) → NO* (v -1) + CO2 (001) where NO* (v) represents the NO molecule in the vth vibrational level of the A, C, or D state. Additional emissions at 2.6072 and 2.6380 μm were also detected; however, their exact origins are not certain at present."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The resonances in the 11-14-eV region produced in thee-H2interaction are suggested as mechanisms to invert the population between the upper laser statesC^{1}\\pi_{u}andB^{1}\\Sigma+_{u}and the ground stateX^{1}\\Sigma+_{g}of the hydrogen molecule."
"The frequency of one axial mode of a three-mode He/Ne laser can be tuned independently from the other modes if a third mirror is added to the usual two laser mirrors. Provided the adjustment is correct, the frequency shift is proportional to a change of the optical path length between the third mirror and the neighboring laser mirror. By observing the beat frequency of the laser, measurements of optical path variations down to 10-5Å are possible."
"By adjusting the proportions of CO2and N2in a TEA laser gas mixture and by also adjusting the coupling losses of the optical resonator, it is shown that the same laser system can produce laser outputs of relatively uniform energy but with pulse lengths adjustable from0.05 to 50 \\mus."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Using the model of an elastic half-space, the behavior of the reflecting mirror surface under the action of CW high-power CO2-laser beams is considered. The temperature and the stress fields on the mirror surface are calculated. The three critical intensity values corresponding to the three regions of the mirror optical distortion are determined. It is shown that, when optical distortion is to be minimized, the elastic deformation is of great importance at laser flux densities two or three orders of magnitude smaller than those necessary to melt the material of the mirror. The magnitude of the mirror surface normal displacement is experimentally determined. The calculations are found to agree with the experimental data."
"The basic differential equation governing laser noise is derived from classical and quantum mechanical considerations. Its linearized Van Der Pol form is used to derive the frequency, field, and intensity fluctuation spectra."
"The 1.06-μm output of a loss-modulation mode-locked and frequency-doubled Nd:YAG laser was examined using a microwave avalanche photodiode with a rise time of ∼40 ps, and a scanning Fabry-Perot. The pulses were found to be transform limited only in the case where the 0.53-μm output of the laser was suppressed. When conversion efficiency was restored, the spectrum exhibited narrowing, but the pulses were much wider than the transform limit, indicating the presence of chirping."
"The performances of He-Ne lasers stabilized by saturated absorption in methane at 3.39 μm and iodine at 633 nm have been compared from the point of view of their use as optical frequency standards. Both lasers have shown a frequency stability comparable with the cesium-beam frequency standard and a reproducibility much better than the krypton-lamp length standard."
"In a positive-column He-I2discharge of a cataphoresis-type, CW laser oscillation of an output power around 10 mW for five visible lines has been first observed and output characteristics of three lines have been studied."
"An external electric field exerts volume torque on the nematic liquid crystal due to the anisotropic molecular polarizability and tends to reorient the molecular axes. Phase-velocity tuning in these materials is thus possible. Eigenmodes of thin-film liquid-crystal waveguides are analyzed by a numerical method. A three-layer model of the waveguides is found to be in good agreement with the measured data, thus providing a simplified model for conceptual thinking as well as for computation."
 "Heterojunction optical waveguide modulators in which the modulated region may be smaller than the guide width are analyzed using two models: the average-field model, which replaces the actual junction field with a uniform field and the abrupt-junction model, which accounts for the linear decrease of the electric field throughout the depletion region. The models are used to calculate the field-induced birefringence in two (Ga,Al)P heterojunction waveguide structures as a function of voltage, including the effects of the change in the depletion width, and the results are compared. Both models predict a mode dependence for the induced birefringence which is especially strong for thin modulated regions."
"The room-temperature cross sections for the Nd3+4F_{3/2}levels to the4I_{11/2}and4I_{9/2}manifolds (lower laser state and ground state, respectively) in NdP5O14are measured by two spectroscopic methods. A value for the largest cross section of\\sigma(R_{1} - Y_{2}) = 1.7 \\times 10^{-19}cm2is found. The highest effective cross section, resulting from superposition of two lines at 1.051 μm, gives a laser gain per Nd ion which is about 2/3 of the maximum gain in YAG:Nd. The relative branching ratio into the4I_{11/2}and4I_{9/2}manifolds is 0.65:0.35. Comparison of the integrated cross sections with the measured lifetime for 1-percent Nd in LaP5O14indicates a combined efficiency <0.1 for the remaining transitions, namely radiative decay into the4I_{13/2}and4I_{15/2}manifolds and multiphonon quenching. A measurement of temperature dependence of fluorescence lifetime supports this last result."
"The hybrid integration of an injection laser with a simple avalanche transistor modulator is shown to produce optical peak powers of several tens of watts magnitude and pulse rise times appreciably shorter than 1 ns. In certain circumstances the pulse leading edge assumes the form of a spike having a displayed rise time of 120 ps."
"Comparative extinction-ratio measurements for two electrooptical materials, GaAs and CdTe, are reported. The extinction ratio obtainable in the two materials is found to be similar, with the best samples approaching 104:1."
"New measurements are presented on the absorption of silver thiogallate and related to fundamental mechanisms. All available data on the refractive indices of silver thiogallate, including new results for the visible, have been incorporated into sets of Sellmeier expressions. Different Sellmeier constants are given for visible and infrared wavelengths and also for crystals from different sources. Confirmation of some predictions from these Sellmeier expressions has been obtained by second-harmonic generation (SHG) experiments with a tunable optical parametric oscillator. Preliminary results on laser damage are summarized."
"The first part of a collaborative survey of the linear and nonlinear optical properties of silver thiogallate, carried out by the Centre National d'Etudes des Télécommunications (Bagneux) and the Department of Electronics of the University of Southampton, is presented. A detailed study of second-harmonic generation (SHG) in silver thiogallate is presented. Careful experiments in the near and medium infrared lead to a new determination of the coefficient|d_{36}|. Comparison is made with previously published values. Crystal quality is discussed and the nature of the visible twinning defects elucidated."
"The general structure of double-heterojunction diode lasers is shown to be consistent with the required geometry of the Shockley diode or p-n-p-n switch. When the two devices are combined in a single structure, there results an extremely simple source of high optical power (>0.5-W) pulses of very short duration (<10 ns) without the need for a complex external driver. In principle, pulse triggering and repetition rate are easily controlled, suggesting that the device has potential application in pulse-coded optical communication systems."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Rotational hole burning is known to be the main factor that determines saturation in molecular absorbers during a short pulse. Experimental results are presented that suggest that pulse transmission measurements, as opposed to CW transmission measurements, must be used in order to determine if a gas can be used as a saturable absorber in passiveQswitching. Rate equations are developed for a five-state model to explain saturation in SF6. This model is found to predict CW and pulse transmission through SF6at various lines of the 10.4-μm band of the CO2laser. A simplified model is developed for pulse transmission through saturable gases and is solved analytically for the peak of the pulse. It is found that the absorption coefficient of the absorber at the peak of the pulse is given by a simple expression, which leads directly to a new criterion for passiveQswitching. An experimental test of this criterion is carried out for several mixtures of SF6and He which act as saturable absorbers under varying conditions of irradiation. It is found that the transition from CW to pulsed operation is very sharp and occurs at a well-defined value of radiation intensity."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Efficient second-harmonic generation at 5321 Å has been achieved in CDA and CD*A. At 50-MW pump power, loss-free peak power-conversion efficiency of 57 percent and 45 percent were obtained in CDA and CD*A, respectively, The nonlinear optical constant, corrected for multimode fluctuations, was found to bed_{36}(CDA) = d_{36}(CD*A) = (0.96 \\pm 0.11) \\times 10^{-9}ESU, which corresponds tod_{36}(CDA) = d_{36}(CD*A) = 0.92 \\times d_{36}(KDP). In addition, the temperature variation of the birefringenced(n_{2}^{e} - n_{1}^{o})/dThas been measured to be(8.0 \\pm 0.2) \\times 10^{-6}\\degC-1for CDA and(7.8 \\pm 0.2) \\times 10^{-6}\\degC-1for CD*A."
"A late-time rise in gain for the CF3I iodine photodissociation laser has been reported by other investigators. Within experimental error no rise in gain after the initial photolytic flash was observed in the present experiment."
"The detection of low-level optical frequency radiation, such as that encountered in laser communication systems, is often accomplished with a photomultiplier tube. The photomultiplication process, however, is itself a random process. In this paper a formula for the statistics of the number of electrons afterkstages is derived in the form of a recurrence relation. A Polya distribution is assumed as a model for each stage, and the probability of error for a laser communication system is examined in terms of the Polyab-parameter and the gain per stage. A simple closed-form expression for the decibel loss as a function of the photomultiplier parameters is also derived."
"A rate equation analysis of convective CO electric-discharge lasers (EDL's) is presented. The spatial distribution of CO vibrational levels is governed by a kinetic master equation which contains terms representing electron impact pumping, vibration-vibration (VV) and vibration-translation (VT) energy transfer, and spontaneous and stimulated emission. Electronic pumping rates are derived from the solution to the electron Boltzmann equation. Spectral distributions of small-signal gain and optical flux are calculated in terms of the cross sections for these processes. Good agreement is obtained between predicted and experimentally reported gain and power spectra. For coincident discharge/cavity configurations, the quasi-steady small-signal gain is predicted to have a strong dependence on translational temperature for representative operating conditions. The predicted power output for a wide variety of bulk gas and plasma properties is found to be correlated by a simple energy-time parameter. The performance of other devices which involve separate discharge and cavity regions is also examined. The importance of the threshold excitation energy in understanding a variety of configurations is discussed."
"A birefringent filter which is suitable for tuning dye lasers having high gain is described. Transmission and tuning characteristics for the filter are calculated. Several appropriate designs having small sidebands, a minimum number of elements, and narrow passbands are discussed."
"Properties of tungsten-nickel point contact diodes, when used as harmonic-generator mixers, were measured. The measured properties are those which will be useful to workers wishing to use these high-speed devices (faster than 10-14s). Some of the properties measured were : the decrease in signal with mixing order; the detected signal as a function of laser frequency; and the power required to optimize the harmonic beat notes."
"A new method for obtaining cross sections for absorption from excited states with nanosecond lifetimes using pulsed lasers is introduced. Absorption cross sections of some common laser dyes at 3371 Å are presented."
"Laser action at high repetition rates with flashlamp pumping has been achieved in a YAG:Nd3+laser rod. With the resonant charging techniques used in the experiments, the repetition rate is limited by the heating of the laser rod."
"A peak laser power of 0.5 MW with an estimated efficiency of 0.2 percent has been obtained at 3577 Å from a mixture of 92 psia Ar and 8 psia N2which was excited by anE-beam of 400 A/cm2at 1.3 MeV in a 20-ns pulse. A saturation intensity of ∼100 kW/cm2was deduced and a beam divergence of 10 mrad was measured from the laser having a 10-cm gain length."
"Neodynium doped calcium lanthanum silicate oxyapatite (Nd:CaLaSOAP) has properties intermediate between Nd:YAG and Nd:glass that make it desirable for use as a pulsed-mode-locked oscillator at 1.06 μ. Time resolve spectroscopy, high speed image converter streak recordings, and two-photon fluorescence pulse duration measurements were used to investigate the output of such a laser. Pulse durations from 5 to 15 ps were observed under different operating conditions."
"The high efficient generation of the second harmonic of ruby laser in rubidium dihydrogen arsenate (RDA) is reported. A peak harmonic power of 52 MW was obtained with a fundamental power of 110 MW. In addition, the temperature variation of the birefringence has been measured to bed(n_{2}^{e} - n_{1}^{o})/dT = (9.3 \\pm 0.4) \\times 10^{-6}\\degC^{-1}."
"Single-mode rate equations are solved in the small-signal limit to determine the oscillation frequency and decay constant for relaxation oscillations in an intracavity frequency-doubled Nd:YAG laser. It is found that improved stability is noted for nonlinear coupling constants greater than 10-5. Eventually, cavity perturbations become critically damped with increased coupling, and oscillatory behavior disappears."
"Solutions of the wave equation are obtained for planar guides whose dielectric constant ε is anisotropic and decreases exponentially in the direction perpendicular to that of wave propagation. Although for TE modes the solutions are quite similar to those obtained earlier for exponentially varying but isotropic ε, there are some singificant differences for TM modes. The condition for single-mode operation and the number of modes of such guides are given in terms of the exponential decay rate, the difference between the surface and bulk values of ε, and the wavelength. The results are illustrated for the cases of Se-diffused CdS and out-diffused LiNbO3."
"This paper investigates the diffraction of light by apodized apertures. The diffraction equation is solved numerically starting with an apertured plane wave or Gaussian beam. A function chosen to characterize spatial intensity modulation is then plotted versus Fresnel number for differing amounts of apodization so that the benefit gained thereby may be quantitatively assessed. In addition, the energy loss incurred due to insertion of an apodized aperture in front of an existing hard aperture is determined."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
                     "A 10-channel optical-sampling technique has been developed to give oscilloscope displays of picosecond laser pulses in a single shot. Pulses with durations of 10-30 ps and powers ranging down to ∼ 1 W have been displayed with this technique. An ultrafast optical gate and a 10-channel multibeam splitter are used to cut out in one laser shot ten samples centered at 4.1-ps intervals from the leading to the lagging edge of the pulse. The ten optical samples are then spaced out at 10-ns intervals by means of an optical fiber array, detected by a fast photomultiplier, and displayed on a real-time oscilloscope. The envelope of the sample pulses represents a display of the laser pulse. This technique could substitute for picosecond streak cameras in certain applications."
"The exact wave equation for a lenslike dielectric medium derived from Maxwell's equations contains the term of gradient of permittivity ε. The purpose of this correspondence is to clarify the effect of the\\bigtriangledown \\epsilonterm on the propagation constants of the modes. We find that the propagation constants of the lower order modes suffer significant modification by taking the\\bigtriangledown \\epsilonterm into account, while for the higher order modes the effects are small enough to be disregarded."
                                                                                                               "Injection of ionized gas is used to obtain uniform continuous discharges in CO2-laser gas mixtures at atmospheric pressure. Power input densities of up to 150 kW/l have been obtained in mixtures of CO2/N2/He and CO2/N2/H2, and laser action has been obtained in a small device under conditions where the gain coefficient was 0.1 m-1."
           "Peak powers of 0.2 GW were obtained in 12-J pulses 60-ns full width at half maximum (FWHM) from a room-temperature atmospheric-pressure mixture of H2and F2initiated with an electron beam. The chemical efficiency was 0.25 percent and the electrical efficiency was ∼100 percent."
  "When an intense relativistic electron beam traversed a magnetic field of novel configuration, ∼ 25 MW of narrow-band microwave power was emitted near the relativistic cyclotron frequency. The emitted waves are superluminous and propagate in a direction transverse to the applied magnetic field. The process is coherent, is driven by population inversion, and depends on the relativistic mass change."
 "In double-pulse experiments with a small copper vapor laser, the choice of buffer gas significantly affected several laser characteristics, including the maximum practical pulse repetition rate. Of the gases tested, neon exhibited the best overall performance, and showed no pulse degradation for pulse intervals as short as 50 μs."
        "Summary form only, as given. The use of electron beam controlled discharge techniques for high pressure gas lasers provides an efficient method for exciting large active volumes, with a high degree of flexibility in pulse length. The cold-cathode glow-discharge electron gun provides a simple and robust source for electron beam lasers. For certain applications this gun offers considerable advantages over the field emission and thermionic devices which are normally used."
                                            "A study, using heterodyne techniques, of the magnetic field (1-10 kG), electron concentration (1014- 1015cm-3), and alignment dependencies of the tuning characteristics of an InSb spin-flip laser pumped with a 5-μm CO laser is reported. These characteristics vary from a nearly continuously tunable broad-band (100-MHz) output to quasi-continuous single-mode hopping and pulling with mode tuning rates varying from greater than 75 MHz/G to less than 30 MHz/G. Large variations in the tuning rate are observed within a single-mode tuning range of less than 1 GHz. The frequency and magnetic-field dependencies of the InSb index of refraction have been measured in the near-resonance regime and a simple theoretical fit to the dispersion data is carried out. A hybrid frequency and phase-lock closed-loop system to maintain the output frequency of the spin-flip laser at a variable frequency offset from the frequency of a CO local-oscillator laser has been constructed. This system results in three major improvements in the operating characteristics of the spin-flip laser: 1) the output frequency is accurately calibrated relative to the CO-laser frequency, 2) the tuning of the spin-flip laser can be controlled in a well-calibrated fashion by varying the frequency offset, and 3) the frequency jitter and stability of the spin-flip is reduced to\\lsim30kHz."
                                                           "The concept of mode stability is considered in detail and a procedure is developed for determining the stability of laser resonators and optical waveguides containing arbitrary lens elements. It is found that under some conditions the addition of a laser medium with a gain profile makes oscillation or propagation impossible in an otherwise stable system. A new formalism is described for the propagation of off-axis modes."
          "A passively mode-locked Nd:glass laser which generates single pulses of 6-ps duration at a rate of 5/s is reported."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
             "Some additional necessary conditions for the existence of a unimodular decomposition of an immittance matrix are presented. It is shown that the sum of all elements of a principal submatrix of such a matrix is positive. Some property of the minors of the matrix, which can be decomposed, is shown."
 "A procedure for the realization of the graph from the sets of 2-treesW_{i,j}andW_{k,l}is given."
"Two theorems concerning polynomials having only negative real axis zeros, or only imaginary axis zeros are given. The first of these answers a conjecture by Talbot."
"The computational effort involved in differential-amplifier common-mode rejection-ratio (CMRR) calculations may be reduced by using the adjoint network to obtain the network sensitivities required for the CMRR determination."
"Among those filters which exhibit both a good frequency and transient behavior, we suggest a new kind of filter, of the transitional type, whose characteristics lie between those of monotonic with maximum cutoff rate (Legendre) and linear phase (Thomson) filters. Attenuation, group delay, and step responses are given. Characteristics curves for the design of a fifth-order transitional Legendre-Thomson (TLT) filter are also presented."
"The generation of roundoff accumulation noise in implementing a cascade digital filter can be regarded as a multistage process; therefore, the minimum-noise realization is obtained by dynamic programming. The effect of scaling on the noises is discussed by a numerical example."
 "An earlier paper by the authors describes an easily trimmed universal building block for active RC filters which possesses the valuable characteristic that, with suitable design, theQ-value can be made approximately independent of the gain-bandwidth product of the operational amplifiers. This makes the filter usable for high frequencies, while at the same time the dependence of theQ-value on temperature variations in the operational amplifiers is drastically reduced. Design formulas are presented, as well as comparative measurements which verify the theory. The building block is shown to have excellent characteristics both as a universal second-order building block and as a standard block for active ladder synthesis of bandpass filters."
"Second-order active networks are investigated, using all four possible types of dependent sources with relatively low gains. All proposed structures use two imperfect integrators and one low-gain feedback amplifier. It is shown that the sensitivities of these networks to changes of all elements are low provided certain conditions are fulfilled. The influence of the finite gain-bandwidth product of the dependent sources is studied and it is shown that the sensitivities remain low as Q increases. It is also shown that current-controlled sources make better active filters than voltage-controlled sources (i.e., operational amplifiers). The networks are suitable for use in intermediate frequency regions."
"The concept and properties of an active filter with a fourlayer distributed RC line in a feedback loop are presented. Due to specific properties of the four-layer RC line, it is possible to obtain zeroQ-sensitivity of the filter to active-element gain variations. A design procedure for the bandpass filter with prescribed Q and center frequency\\omega_{o}-values is given."
"An efficient method for numerically generating the immittance and sensitivity parameters of linear time-invariant lumped distributed active networks as explicit functions of the frequency variable s is presented. It is based on the fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm for numerical interpolation, the sparse-matrix method for efficient computation and low storage, and the adjoint-network approach for sensitivity evaluation. The situation when a few of the network element values are to be left as symbols is considered. The influence of various numerical errors is investigated and ways of reducing them are proposed."
"The problem of approximating a specified real time function by a sum of n real and/or complex exponentials is considered. The mean-squared error is the criterion on which optimization is based. The Newton-Raphson method is used to solve the nonlinear equations required for optimization."
"The different versions of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) are described here for arbitrary base in terms of the matrix factors of the discrete Fourier transform matrixT_{N}. The Kronecker product notation and the ideal shuffle baserpermutation operator form the basis for a unifying theory through which the various versions of the FFT can be viewed. The properties of the ideal shuffle baserpermutation operator are used to arrive at FFT versions with such desirable properties as in-place computation or identical geometry from stage to stage. The FFT versions previously described in the literature are derived here. At the same time, algorithms for the sorting of FFT data in digit-reversed order are generated. These are explored and new sorting versions amenable to hardware implementation with sequential memory are presented. As an example of how the unifying theory is used, a number of FFT versions with identical geometry from stage to stage are derived. The hardware necessary for these algorithms is described for the base 4 case withN = 1024data points."
"An analytical technique for estimating the displacement of poles and zeros of a digital filter due to multiplier coefficient quantization is presented. The proposed technique allows rapid evaluation of quantization effects in different realizations of a given transfer function. Also advanced here is a simple extension of the method to determine, a priori, coefficient word lengths which insure that the polezero movements will remain within prescribed bounds. Examples illustrating the technique are included."
"We derive, by use of the Lyapunov theory for difference equations, a criterion for the asymptotic stability of a system governed by a nonautonomous difference equation of second order. The results are pertinent to the design of a simple digital frequency-shift-keying (FSK) oscillator. A feature of our analysis that is of major importance is the technique used in our application of the Lyapunov theory. It is shown that the technique yields the best stability criterion that can be obtained by the use of any positive definite quadratic form as a Lyapunov function. Thus we show how one might overcome one of the major obstacles to the practical application of the Lyapunov theory, i.e., the problem of choosing an appropriate (in some meaningful sense) Lyapunov function."
"In a recent paper Thiran has proposed a method for the approximation of constant group delay in an equiripple manner, based on the method of Ulbricht and Piloty. A different, conceptually simpler solution to the same problem is proposed. The solution is based on an algorithm of the pole-shifting type, related to Remez's second algorithm. The choice of initial conditions is discussed and numerical solutions are given."
"The analysis of rounding error in the one-dimensional fast Fourier transform (FFT) is extended to a class of generalized orthogonal transforms [1] with a common fast algorithm similar to the FFT algorithm. This class includes the BInary FOurier REpresentation (BIFORE) transform (BT) [2], the complex BT (CBT) [3], and the discrete Fourier transform (DFT). Expressions for the mean square error (MSE) in the two-dimensional BT, CBT, and FFT are derived. In the case of white input data, the mean square error-to-signal ratio is derived for the multidimensional generalized transforms. The error-to-signal ratio for the one-dimensional FFT derived by Kaneko and Liu is modified with improvement. Some comparisons among BIFORE, DFT, and Haar transforms are also included. The theoretical results for the two-dimensional FFT and BIFORE have been verified experimentally. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theoretical results for lower order sequences, but deviate as the order increases due to the actual manner of rounding in the digital computer."
"Three new canonic realizations of a digital-filter transfer function using the continued-fraction-expansion techniques are derived."
"A wave digital filter based on a transmission-line transformation which can be realized with a fewer number of multipliers than other proposed wave filters is presented. A procedure for the synthesis of a desired filter function is discussed wherein a frequency transformation becomes necessary for conversion to the digital sampling domain. The validity of this mapping and transfer relations of the wave filter and its corresponding transmission-line network are examined. The low sensitivity property of this wave digital filter is analytically examined. Finally, an example is presented to illustrate the desirable properties."
"In the realization of a digital filter the finite number of bits used introduces essentially three types of errors: quantization, coefficient, and roundoff errors. Analysis based on the state-variable formulation is given for both the conventional and multiple-shift digital filters. Sensitivity results for the two configurations are compared with the help of charts. A digital filter can be designed for a prescribed accuracy and, in certain situations, multiple-shift sequences can result in substantial improvements. Experimental results using digital computer simulation show close agreement with the theoretical conclusions."
"A postulational approach is presented to the stability of infinite active lines in the complex frequency-complex wavenumber domain. It is shown that the discrimination between stability and instability together with the verification of instabilities can be made at sight upon examination of a plot in the\\sigma-{\\alpha}plane, where a is the real part of complex frequency p and a is the real part of the complex wavenumber\\gamma."
"In 1962, Schoeffler developed, from the original Howitt theory, a \"continuous\" method of generating equivalent networks by means of node-admittance matrix transformations. An alternative to this method is now proposed which is simpler in concept and more convenient for current applications. The new approach is applied to the problem of minimizing sensitivity of RLC networks."
"A \"scattering network\" is an interconnection of multiports whose electrical properties are described by scattering matrices. The junction matrix defines the constraints imposed on the interconnected ports. This paper shows how the junction matrix is derived from the topological properties of the graph which represents the interconnections and how it is combined with the scattering matrices of the component multiports to arrive at the scattering matrix of the network."
"Conditions that are both necessary and sufficient for the unique solvability of a general linear active network that may contain controlled sources of all types are presented. Illustrative examples are also given."
"The derivation of state equations in linear active RLC networks is considered and a computer-oriented algorithm for their formulation is given. In this work, the dependent sources are assumed to be controlled by other sources as well as the passive elements, and it is shown that all the state variables still can be chosen among inductor currents and capacitor voltages. In previous works, either one of these cases was not considered. The active RLC networks considered in this paper are general enough to contain ideal transformers, gyrators, and other types of elements which can be represented by dependent sources."
"A new and efficient algorithm for topological formulation of network functions in symbolic form for a general linear (passive or active) network is presented. This algorithm, which is based on the concept of graph partitioning developed by Dunn and Chan, has all of the advantages of the existing topological formulas, such as overcoming the problem of sign evaluation and greatly reducing the number of term cancellations and the number of topological terms. In addition, and perhaps the most important, it presents a step-by-step procedure for formulating network functions that can readily be adapted for computer implementation. Finally, it is shown that the theoretical results developed herein are most suited for sensitivity analysis of linear active networks."
"An alternative to the sensitivity analysis of variable parameter networks based on the adjoint model is developed by introduction of the \"incremental\" model. The latter consists of a network having current and voltage distributions equal to the incrementals of the corresponding distributions of the original network, and may be considered an extension of the familiar case of small-signal analysis of nonlinear networks. Examples of application, as well as extensions to higher order incrementals, are discussed."
"The given rational matrix transfer function H(\\cdot) is viewed as a network function of a multiport. The no X ni matrix H(s) is factored intoD_{l}(S)^{-1} N_{l}(s) = N_{r}(s)D_{r}(s)^{-1},whereD_{l}(\\cdot),N_{l}(\\cdot),N_{r}(\\cdot), andD_{r}(\\cdot)are polynomial matrices of appropriate size, withD_{l}(\\cdot)andN_{i}(\\cdot)left coprime andN_{r}(\\cdot)andD_{r}(\\cdot)right coprime. A zero ofH(\\cdot)is defined to be a pointzwhere the local rank ofN_{l}(\\cdot)drops below the normal rank. The theorems make precise the intuitive concept that a multiport blocks the transmission of signals proportional toe^{zt}if and only ifzis a zero ofH(\\cdot). We show that p is a pole ofH(\\cdot)if and only if some \"singular\" input creates a zero-state response of the formre^{pt}, fort > 0. The order m of the zero z is similarly characterized. Although these results have state-space interpretation, they are derived by purely algebraic techniques, independently of state-space techniques. Consequently, with appropriate modifications, these results apply to the sampled-data case."
"The method developed herein provides a convenient procedure for the inversion of rational matrices-matrices whose entries are rational functions inswhich ats = 0are nonsingular."
"A quadratic polynomial decomposition for the simultaneous minimization of root- and quality-factor sensitivities is proposed. The proposed method leads toRC:RLnetworks with zeroQ-sensitivity and minimum possible root sensitivity. No relaxation of the zeroQ-sensitivity constraint is required, as had been proposed."
"An operation is defined on a finite connected undirected graphG_{0}without loops and multiple edges, and the use of the operation to generate a minimal dominating set ofG_{0}is illustrated. A method to determine a fairly good approximation of a minimum dominating set is constructed."
"Further results on minimal essential sets in directed graphs are presented and an indirect algorithm based on the analysis of the complementary graph is derived."
"The concepts of pseudo-Boolean matrix multiplication and pseudo-Boolean matrix adjoint are reviewed. For a given symmetric matrixTto be realizable as the terminal capacity matrix of an unoriented communication net, it is necessary and sufficient forTto be idempotent with respect to multiplication. Another equivalent condition is forTto be self-adjoint."
"Amplitude estimates and bounds are derived for a nonlinear two-parameter oscillator. The differential equation considered is characterized by an arctangent nonlinearity, arising as a generalization of van der Pol's equation."
"The departures of the operational amplifiers (OA's) from the ideal performance and their effect on VCV's in the inverting and noninverting mode are discussed. It is found that for the same ideal gain, the bandwidths for the inverting and noninverting modes are different, the former being less. Complete equivalent circuits describing the frequency dependance of the input and output impedances for both modes are given. In particular, the output impedance is shown to be inductive for the frequencies of interest, and this is also confirmed by experimental results."
  "The following optimal synthesis problems for lumped and distributed RC ladder networks are solved explicitly: 1) transfer admittance synthesis with minimum total shunt capacitance; 2) transfer impedance synthesis with minimum total series resistance; and 3) opencircuit voltage transfer-function synthesis with minimum total resistance-total capacitance product. In all three cases, an explicit expression is given for the corresponding minimum value of the network attribute being considered, in terms of the specified transfer function."
  "This letter demonstrates that a network composed of a current conveyor and RC one-ports is capable of realizing any real rational voltage transfer function."
"Rapidly tuned power amplifier circuits covering a wide frequency range have been demonstrated and are suggested as a method of overcoming the traditionally low dc/RF conversion efficiency of broadband power amplifiers. The further advantage of tuned power amplification over that of broad-band amplification is shown to be significant in the area of spurious, harmonic, and intermodulation emissions."
"An analysis of the transient response of a logarithmic amplifier to a step function decrease in nuclear reactor period leads to a differential equation of the form exp({\\alpha}t) + a exp (bx) + cdx/dt = 0. This equation is shown to be integrable and to relate the amplifier output voltage to reactor period and time. The result can be used to examine the suitability of a logarithmic amplifier for monitoring fast transient reactor excursions."
"A lumped active RC circuit synthesis procedure with zero Q-sensitivity to active parameter variations is presented. Proposed circuit structures with active block gains on the order of 35 dB allow one to realize high Q-factors of the transfer function poles. Medium gain values enable the broad-band active block realization and extention of the frequency range of the proposed active filters. An optimal decomposition of third-degree polynomials is given and, based on it, synthesis procedures for three different synthesis models are described. A numerical example is also presented."
"Generalized immittance converter (GIC) embedding techniques, based on the Gorski-Popiel structure, have been employed to realize high-quality active filters by several workers. A general equivalent circuit is derived for GIC-embedded structures which is topologically identical to the network that is to be simulated. From the proposed equivalent circuit, the multiparameter sensitivity performance of GIC simulated bandpass filters is evaluated in terms of all the network elements. The results are compared with the inductance-simulation method."
"The effect of using a nonideal simulated inductance in Leach and Chan's method of active RC synthesis is examined. It is shown that one can still obtain all types of second-order filter sections; moreover, there is a reduction in the number of components used, and the sensitivities obtained are less than or equal to those in the ideal inductor scheme."
"A general, low-sensitivity multiloop feedback configuration for realizing higher order transfer functions is presented. A synthesis procedure, which incorporates the desirable building block approach of cascade design, is described. In particular, the paper is concerned with the realization of higher order narrow-band bandpass (BP) functions where either biquad or Tarmy-Ghausi (TG) networks are used as active blocks. A sensitivity expression, dependent explicitly on the individual active block Q's and loop gains, is derived and minimized. The results demonstrate the low-sensitivity performance of the structure which, for some designs is superior to that of the \"leapfrog\" (LF) configuration, especially over a wide-band of frequencies."
"The utilization of the operational amplifier pole in the design leads to filters with satisfactory high-frequency performance. The approach reduces the number of capacitors required leading to circuits suitable for integration. Circuit arrangements for a bandpass filter and a second-order Butterworth low-pass filter have been suggested using only resistors and two operational amplifiers. The circuits have low parameter sensitivities."
"A new statistical variability criterion for optimal design and comparative evaluation of thin film RC active filters is proposed. The manufacturing industries should find this criterion to be more realistic and useful in designing and/or deciding on the merits of the filter for large-scale manufacture than any of the multiparameter sensitivity functions suggested so far. Four biquadratic bandpass circuits have been chosen to illustrate the usefulness of the criterion and their optimum variability measure is compared."
"Analytic expressions for finding fill-in, the number of nonzero elements that change in value, and the number of \"long operations\" during each step of the LU decomposition are given. A new optimal pivot ordering algorithm is proposed which leads to a reduction of the overall fill-in and long operation count. Comparison is made with two other known algorithms."
"During each step of Gaussian elimination (GE), if ties occur for a minimum fill-in algorithm, an additional criterion is required to search for the most probable optimum pivot. Theoretical justifications for this criterion are developed. Practical rules for searching for these pivots as well as their implementation and computation results are presented for both the deterministic and probabilistic algorithms."
"The method is described for evaluating the ratio of total nonzeros created between Gauss-Jordan elimination (GJE) and Gaussian elimination (GE) for large random sparse matrices. It has been found that, within the lower and upper bounds of nonzero densities for the matrices, an approximate constant fill-in ratio of two has been verified. It was also found that, within those bounds, the fill-in ratio is independent of the nonzero densities and the matrices' order."
"Brugia's work on the noniterative computation of high order derivatives of rational functions with application to multiple-pole fraction expansion is simplified by the use of operators. The formulas for the derivatives are given in a recursive scheme and finally the Laurent expansion is developed and applied to the partial fraction expansion of improper rational functions."
"A new approach to network design to obtain optimal parameter values simultaneously with an optimal set of component tolerances is proposed. An automated scheme could start from an arbitrary initial acceptable or unacceptable design and under appropriate restrictions stop at an acceptable design which is optimum in the worst case sense for the obtained tolerances."
"Concepts which promise to extend many fundamental results of network theory to general systems are introduced. The basis for these extensions is the introduction of two matrices, the summing matrix S and the branching matrix B, which completely describe the topology of a signal flow graph. This leads to a formulation of system equations in terms of submatrices of the S- and B-matrices suitable for digital-computer programming. Consequently, many computer-aided circuit analysis and design programs can now be employed for the computer-aided analysis and design of systems representable by signal flow graphs. This formulation also leads to a straightforward algorithm for obtaining the system gain, an alternate to using Mason's gain formula. Furthermore, the power of this formulation, and its strong relation to network theory, is demonstrated by the derivation of a theorem similar to Tellegen's theorem in network theory. The theorem depends only on the topological properties of the summing and branching matrices and not on the functional relationships between the branch"
"It is shown that the adjoint network concept can be used to compute exact changes in response due to changed parameters for the class of cascaded two-port networks. Such networks are frequently encountered in linear filters and various microwave designs. Computing the change in response this way is both elegant and computationally efficient. In the limit of small parameter changes, the equations reduce to well-known results for first-order network sensitivities. The fact that an analysis of only the original network and not the adjoint is necessary to compute the sensitivity of a driving-point conjugate input variable is highlighted in this formulation."
"Conditions are obtained for a digital filter in three or more variables to be stable, and computational techniques for checking the stability are examined."
"Controlled RC transmission lines can be used to model such solid-state devices as field-effect transistors and diffusion resistors; therefore, the terminal properties of such lines are important. In this paper, expressions for the transmission (chain) parameters of an arbitrary controlled RC transmission line are established."
"The analysis for a distributed RC transmission line based on a circular geometry in which a plane circular resistive sheet is separated from a circular conductor by a dielectric is developed. Connections to this sheet are made using an outer circumferential electrode and an inner central circular electrode. Two types of notch filter are then analyzed, one incorporating a single discrete resistor and having a fixed notch frequency, and a second with a discrete resistor and a discrete capacitor in series combination that has a variable notch frequency. In common with notch filters based on linearly and exponentially tapered transmission lines, the filters described demonstrate improved selectivity compared with zero-tapered lines. The effect of loading that is likely to be encountered in experimental conditions is discussed."
"A network that is not locally finite is an infinite network with at least one node having an infinity of incident branches. Such networks arise naturally when the short circuits in a locally finite infinite network are coalesced into nodes. Although a number of existence and uniqueness theorems for the behavior of a locally finite network have been given in the literature, such is not the case for nonlocally finite networks. This paper provides such a theorem for the branch-voltage drops of a nonlocally finite resistive network having an infinity of current sources satisfying a certain restriction. The conditions under which this result holds are Kirchhoff's loop law, the finiteness of the total power dissipation, and a generalized form of Tellegen's theorem. However, Kirchhoff's node law need not hold at those nodes having an infinity of incident branches. Voltage sources can be taken into account by making appropriate changes of sources."
"The necessary and sufficient condition for the positiverealness of a general biquadratic functionZ(s)is presented. It is shown that for each given pair of conjugate-complex poles ofZ(s)with negative-real parts, the zeros ofZ(s)are graphically restricted in a realizability region, which is an open region bounded by two curves. One of these curves is the locus of the zeros for whichZ(s)is a minimum positive-real function. A theorem is given stating the realizability conditions forZ(s)as a driving-point immittance with passive elements."
"The transformerless synthesis of reactive admittance matrices that are compact and for which all the elements of the matrix are given is dealt with. A general method of separation of such matrices is developed, which minimizes the sum of the degrees of the resulting matrices."
"State-space techniques for impedance matrix synthesis can be difficult to apply when the prescribed impedance matrixZ(s)is such thatZ(\\infty) + Z'(\\infty)is singular. Here this problem is overcome by a sequence of preliminary lossless extractions. In the case of lossless networks, the procedure reduces to a multiport Cauer synthesis."
"A new method of synthesizing active RC nport networks using nullators and norators is given. The method based on the reactance extraction principle uses a minimum number of grounded capacitors and gains its importance from the fact that the synthesis procedure does not depend on any topological considerations. A bound on the maximum number of nullator-norator pairs required to realize any arbitraryY(s)matrix is obtained."
"It is shown that using lossless embedding, it is possible to modify the nature of the real parts of the port conductances of an active 2-port network at a single frequency. Two simple tests are given which predict whether the signs of the port conductances can be changed from negative to positive. The range of values of the embedding which cause this to happen are determined graphically."
"Explicit formulas for the hybrid matrix of RLC multiports have been known for some years. When controlled sources are included, only some special cases have been considered in the literature. A completely general procedure for obtaining the constraint matrix for a multiport containing controlled sources is presented. Application to the formulation of state equations for linear active networks is discussed."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a unique solution in the time domain to linear active networks with controlled sources of all types are developed via the existence theorem in the Laplace domain."
"A topological expansion of the network determinant is developed which makes possible the investigation of some properties of general passive networks modeled by two-terminal elements and gyrators. Necessary and sufficient conditions are obtained for the unique solvability of the network equations. These conditions are expressed in terms of the network graph and certain gyrator-only networks, calledG-networks, which are derived from the original network by removing and contracting two-terminal elements. The solvability ofG-networks is also shown to be fully related to the degeneracies existing in the state-variable characterization of the network. A procedure is given for determining the actual number of state equations (order of complexity) needed for describing an arbitrarily degenerate passive network. The theoretical results obtained are illustrated with some examples."
"The concept of an RLC network is introduced, where each R, L, and C-instead of being a positive number or matrix-is a positive bounded linear operator on a Hibert space H. Actually, this idea of a network of operators is generalized still further since in the frequency domain the branch impedances or admittances are only required to be certain kinds of operator-valued positive-real functions. Such operator networks can be used to study various types of infinite networks that are natural models for integrated and distributed networks. The procedure is to decompose a given infinite RLC network into infinite one-element-kind subnetworks in such a way that each subnetwork is characterized by eitherR, Ld/dt, orC^{-i} \\int_{-\\infty}^{t} {\\cdots} dx, where now R, L, and C are positive invertible operators on Hilbert's coordinate spacel_{2}. Some fairly general conditions on the subnetworks are presented, which insure the validity of the operator representations. At this point, essential use is made of some recently published results by Flanders concerning the uniqueness of the behavior of infinite networks. In the general case, wherel_{2}is replaced by H, it is shown that the fundamental theorem of electrical networks continues to hold, so that H-valued voltage and current sources produce unique current distributions throughout the network. Moreover, the driving-point impedances of such networks are shown to be operator-valued forms of positive-real functions. A more special characterization for the driving-point impedances of RL and RC-type operator networks is also established. Mutual coupling can also be taken into account."
"Two types of nonlinear periodic systems are synthesized. The first is an autonomous system which has an arbitrarily prescribed periodic waveform"
"Attempts to produce a mathematical model of the electrical activity in certain sections of the digestive tract in animals have led to complex systems of interconnected nonlinear oscillators. The analytical solution of mutually coupled Van der Pol oscillators using the method of harmonic balance and based on the assumption of nearly sinusoidal oscillations is presented. Algebraic equations are derived from the system dynamic equations, which can be easily solved in the case of identical oscillators to reveal the effect of coupling on the overall system frequency, amplitudes, and phases. A simple hillclimbing method is used for the solution of the algebraic equations for the nonidentical oscillator case. Using this technique, a jump transition is found in the unstable limit cycle of the overall system that can be predicted from a manipulation of the algebraic equations."
"This paper presents an explicit topological formulation of the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian equations for a large class of nonlinear networks. In particular, formulations are given for networks containing both linear and nonlinear controlled sources. Classically, the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian equations are derived from variational techniques; in this paper topological techniques are used for the formulation."
"Roundoff noise generated by arithmetic operations in a digital-filter computational sequence is undesirable in that it serves to distort the true signal at the output. Furthermore, coefficient wordlength is directly related to the generated noise. It is shown that a minimization of the filter attenuation sensitivity, which is characteristic of wave digital filters, serves to reduce the noise. Analytical results confirm this for both floating-point and fixed-point systems. A simulation where the actual noise is measured produces results which demonstrate the superior performance of the wave digital filter over the standard z-transform filter."
"The state of the art in monolithic operational amplifier design is surveyed. A set of large- and small-signal performance parameters are defined and discussed. Relationships between the important operational amplifier parameters of slew rate, offset voltage, and unity gain bandwidth are demonstrated. The dependence of settling time upon the fine structure of the open-loop frequency response is discussed, and the recent technological and circuit design approaches to the minimization of settling time are reviewed."
"The efficient use of high-speed logic modules depends on logic designs in which the fan numbers are kept small and the number of logic delays for critical signals held to a minimum. A logic partition technique is developed, based on the simple decomposition methods of Ashenhurst, which allows the efficient use of a multiemitter two-level logic (METLL) structure. where the logic performed at one level is controlled by the input applied to the other. As examples, the technique is applied to high-speed adders and an iterative multiplier."
"It is well known that the driving-point impedance at any port of an n port can be written as a function of the load impedances across the other(n - 1)ports and that this function is a quotient of two polynomials in the load impedances. A method is given to determine the coefficients of these polynomials with one impedance-measurement on the n port plus one multiplication per constant."
"A simple method for the determination of the impedance matrixZ(s)given,Z(s) + Z'(- s), is presented."
"It is shown how the table form of stability of linear sampleddata systems can be applied to test the stability of nonuniformly sampled and distributed parameter systems."
"A new ladder oscillator withNdegrees of freedom is presented. The stationary energies are determined and used to show that in the quasiharmonic approximation all standing wave modes on such a network are stable whenN + 1is a prime number."
 "Second-degree active filter circuits are synthesized with operational amplifiers having a single pole or two poles and one zero. The method is applied to obtain designs and sensitivities for six useful filter sections. It is shown 1) that the two-pole amplifier is sometimes not the better choice, even though it has more gain at the operating frequency, and 2) that sensitivities are optimized by tradeoffs involving positive feedback."
"Abstracr-A class of positive-feedback active RC filters which realize high stable Q's is presented. This class generalizes the earlier circuits of Tarmy and Ghausi and of Moschytz. The performance of the circuits presented is analyzed using a one-pole rolloff model for the operational amplifier. The Q and wO variations due to one-pole rolloff are tabulated for different filters. It is shown that the positive-feedback filters have lower Q sensitivity to the gain-bandwidth product than the state-variable filter. The theoretical behavior of the circuit Q is experimentally verified."
"The theory developed on the problem of simultaneous realization of a transfer function and a prescribed sensitivity has been used to design variable parameter filters. In particular, variable centerfrequency fixed bandwidth and variable-bandwidth fixed-gain filters are considered in detail."
"A method is given for improving the accuracy of the coefficients of network polynomials of high order produced by symbolic analysis on a computer. By partitioning the polynomials into sets of coefficients the order of the individual matrices involved is reduced and so is the error when these are inverted. The problem is reduced to the inversion of only two Vandermonde matrices. Considerable increases in accuracy are demonstrated."
"The classical problem of weighted minimum mean-square error approximation using transversal-type filters is considered. Results from the theory of Hardy spaces are used to establish necessary and sufficient conditions for the convergence of transversal-type filters to the optimum linear causal filter. These show that the use of second-order (and higher) all-pass approximations to a pure delay is undesirable in minimum mean-square-error approximations with a weighting function which satisfies the Paley-Wiener conditions."
"The operation of expanding a rational transfer function into a continued fraction expansion of the Cauer third form and inverting a continued fraction expansion of the Cauer third form to a rational transfer function is extremely time consuming and laborious."
"The maximally flat criterion is extended to the design of two-dimensional nonrecursive digital filters which approximate circularly symmetrical low-pass specifications. Straightforward generalization of the one-dimensional method does not completely specify the coefficient matrix of the filter. The additional degrees of freedom can be used to increase locally the order of flatness at the origin and/or at the Nyquist frequencies. The choice of the local conditions is crucial, in particular for what regards the monotonic behavior outside the axes. Concentration of the local conditions on the diagonal of the frequency plane gives a special class of filters which, besides the advantage of closed-form expressions for the coefficients, has a monotonically decreasing frequency response along any radius of the frequency plane."
"This paper treats the problem of minimizing the roundoff noise in digital filters using fixed-point arithmetic under sinusoidal input. A basic assumption made is that of representing the roundoff error as white noise that is independent from sample to sample and from source to source. The minimax noise principle is introduced to serve as a guide in the filter design to optimize the structure for minimum noise. One application is illustrated through the design of low-noise cascade digital filters under dynamic range constraints. Numerical examples demonstrate the lower noise possible in comparison to other known designs and serve to verify the effectiveness of a design procedure based on the minimax concept."
"An algorithm is developed to design all-pass filters that best approximate in thel_{p}, sense a prescribed group delay response. This algorithm can be used for both the cases of one- and two-dimensional filters. To illustrate the method, several examples for designing one- and two-dimensional filters are solved."
"This paper considers the time-domain realizability conditions for networks consisting of cascaded sections of uniform lossless transmission lines. It is first demonstrated that the necessary and sufficient conditions for a sequence of real numbers to represent the amplitude coefficients of the reflected impulse response of such a network are equivalent to those for the existence of a solution to a given set of equations. Subsequently, it is proved that a sufficient condition is that a certain symmetric matrix be positive semidefinite."
"A novel method. for exactly realizing a rational transfer function using commensurate uniform RC lines(\\overline{URC})is presented. As an intermediate step in efficiently implementing the method, a new lowsensitivity grounded capacitor lumped RC active structure using operational amplifiers is developed. This structure leads directly to a low sensitivity distributed realization of a rational transfer function merely by replacing the lumped resistors and capacitors by short-circuited\\overline{URC}'s and passive gyrators terminated by open-circuited\\overline{URC}'s, respectively. It is also shown that if the RC product deviates from its nominal value, there is negligible effect on the response of the designed filter provided the RC product is properly chosen."
"A sequence of identical, linear, nonreciprocal processes is equivalent to a ladder network comprising reciprocal elements whose values increase in geometric progression. Thus the ladder with geometric progression is a generalization of the usual iterated ladder network. Simple formulas are derived for the transfer and driving point functions of such ladders. In the special case of the iterated ladder with reciprocal elements, these formulas are simplified even further; and it is shown that the factors(ZY + 1),(ZY + 2), and(ZY + 3)recur periodically in the numerators and denominators of the network functions as the number of stages is increased."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a method for synthesizing a class of second-order RC driving-point impedances with minimum total capacitance using equal-valued capacitors. This method has practical applications for the design of the passive portions of integrated circuits, in which cost minimization is a main objective. A network topology satisfying the requirements of equal and minimum total capacitance is developed, and specific element values in this topology are derived to match the desired impedance. Certain realizability conditions for this synthesis are derived."
"The problem of drawing maximum power from annport by suitably terminating it with another passivenport is studied. Methods are derived for determining sets of passive impedance matrices which are \"optimal\" in the sense that they draw maximum power from a givennport. It is shown that, in all nontrivial cases, if there exists any (passive or otherwise) optimum-load impedance matrix, then there exist, in fact, infinitely many passive optimum-load impedance matrices."
"In this investigation, it is necessary to distinguish pseudographs (self-loops and multiple lines allowed), multigraph (no self-loops but multiple lines are allowed), and graphs (neither self-loop nor multiple lines allowed). The problem of synthesizing graphs, multigraphs, and pseudographs having a prescribed degree sequence was solved by Hakimi. He also determined the conditions under which a connected realization exists in each of these three cases. The case of biconnected (nonseparable) realizations of a degree sequence was given by Hakimi for the case of pseudographs and multigraphs. His methods did not apply to the case of graphs. The triconnected case was solved by Rao and Rao for graphs; however, strangely enough, the biconnected case apparently remains unpublished. We shall show here that the biconnected case can be handled by a \"surgery\" technique similar in spirit to the connected case given by Hakimi. Several remarks concerning the generaln-connected case for pseudographs, multigraphs, and graphs will be given. We conclude with a status report on this subject, which includes the most recent work of Hakimi, Wang and Kleitman, and Bondy."
"By combining the instantaneous phase shift of a twosinusoid-input describing function with a phase response of the tuned circuit it has been possible to develop the locking equation for single-stage LC injection-locked oscillators ILO. The locking range as well as steady-state phase shift of an ILO are calculated for subharmonic, fundamental, and harmonic locking, the dc transfer characteristic of a nonlinear device being approximated, at the dc operating point, by a third-order polynomial. The phase plane representation is included. Experimental results are given to support some of the theoretical relations derived."
"The response of a new type of injection-synchronized oscillator, called a second-order injection-synchronized oscillator (SOISO), to a signal contaminated with an interfering tone has been studied and compared with that of a conventional type of synchronized oscillator (ISO). The superiority of the SOISO over the ISO in this respect has been theoretically established and checked with experimental results."
"The dc analysis of an important class of nondifferentiable nonlinear resistive networks is considered which include both piecewise linear and continuously differentiable cases. A local\\mu-functional is introduced to generalize a concept of monotonicity, and its useful properties are shown. The existence and uniqueness property of dc operating points is investigated in this class of resistive networks in terms of the local\\mu-functional. Relations to previous concepts such as positive definiteness and monotone operators are clarified."
"The recently introduced concept of the dimension of an algebraicnport [1] is shown to be an invariant of thenport. This property led to a unique classification of all linear algebraic n ports in terms of their dimensions. Contrary to common belief, it is shown that the representation port-current vectors. andwis annvector, (Unless specified otherwise, all vectors are column vectors. A vectorx \\in R^{n}is written asx- = [x_{1},x_{2},\\cdots,X_{n},]. Whenxis the composite of two vectorsy \\in R^{k}andz \\in R^{n-k}, we writex = [y,z]. In addition, we let 0 denote zero matrices of appropriate dimensions and1_{k}, denote the identity matrix of orderk.) is not the most general form for characterizing a linearnport. A generalization of (1) which covers all linear algebraicnports is presented."
"An algorithm for modeling the step response behavior of ground stable nonlinear devices and systems is presented. The algorithm converges in the mean-square sense to an exact orthogonal representation whenever the nonconstant component of the step response is a finiteenergy signal. Terminating the algorithm afterNiterations results in anNth-order model whose dynamics are segregated from the nonlinearity in the tradition of Wiener. The model admits a simple circuit realization, and the parameters which characterize it.N + Inonlinear functions of a single variable, can all be obtained directly from terminal measurements. Three examples are cited, and a class of nonlinear differential systems is identified for which the algorithm converges."
"New measures of time-domain sensitivities of a mid-shunt low-pass filter are proposed, These measures are three constant numbers which are equal to the element sensitivities for the nth moments(n =1, 2, 3)of its impulse response. Some lemmas and a theorem are obtained which show that the moment sensitivities are favorable measures of the time-domain sensitivities."
"The problem of approximating a matched filter for pulse waveforms with lumped network transfer functions is considered. Two particular lumped approximations of degrees four and six, respectively, are presented. A study of the performances of these filters is made, and it is found that their behavior is very similar to that of the ideal matched filter."
"A method is presented which makes it possible to build filters that, in some respect, behave likeN-path filters but without suffering from the well-known disadvantages associated with the implementation of these latter filters, namely, incomplete cancellation of unwanted sidebands and interference caused by carrier leakage. In conventionalN-path filters the output signal is formed by summing signals which have been processed byNdistinct paths, each path containing an intermediate network between input and output modulators. The method to be presented consists in using one single path completely in time division multiplex. This way the generation of interfering sidebands is avoided and carrier leak occurs at frequencies where it causes no trouble. A general output-to-input relationship is derived for the ideal case, and the result is given as a time-varying system function. With the aid of an example the effect of nonideal behavior which is encountered with practical circuits is analyzed. Some practical results are shown."
"Delta modulation (DM) is an attractive method of analog-to-digital (A/D) conversion in applications where simple and economical designs must be realized without sacrificing conversion quality. This paper describes a new single-chip, bipolar integrated circuit delta modulator that maintains a high conversion resolution over a wide range of sampling frequencies and ambient conditions. Its high-speed operation (maximum sampling rates greater than 15 Mbit/s) is achieved with lower power requirements than with comparable discrete realizations. Low sensitivities to power supply and ambient temperature variations, achieved with a novel logic design, make this circuit useful in a telephone switching office environment and as a building block for other linear and companded analog-to-PCM converters."
"A new technique is presented for evaluating the performance of a popular type of timing recovery circuit for baseband synchronous pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) data signals. The timing circuit consists of a square-law device followed by a narrowband filter tuned to the pulse repetition frequency along with provision for reshaping the pulses entering the timing path (prefiltering). The output of the timing circuit is a nearly sinusoidal timing wave whose zero crossings indicate the appropriate sampling instants for demodulation of the PAM signal. For a random data sequence, the timing wave exhibits phase fluctuations which are strongly dependent on the pulse shapes entering the timing path and the passband shape of the narrow-band filter. Expressions for rms phase fluctuation in the timing wave as a function of the prefiltering and postfiltering characteristics of the filters preceding and following the square-law device are presented. These expressions have a form which is especially suitable for studying the case where the baseband PAM signal is band-limited to frequencies less than the pulse repetition frequency. A condition on prefiltering and postfiltering which gives error-free timing recovery is presented. Results obtained from some specific examples serve to illustrate several aspects of the timing recovery problem."
"Bucket-brigade devices have been used to build a new type of active filter that is equivalent to a second-order digital filter without the need for complex analog-to-digital conversion. The x It) filter response characteristics, i.e., center frequency and bandwidth, + I depend on the circuit parameters of gain and clock frequency, both e2(t- U of which may be electronically controlled. + By using a variable clock signal, 1023 frequencies can be ac- I e0%, curately selected by the proper setting of ten switches. The selected clock frequency uniquely determines the center frequency of the bucket-brigade filter. The programmable feature of the clock circuit, DELAND therefore, allows the convenient selection of the center frequency u It-T,) of the bandpass filter. A slight modification to the programmable bandpass filter converts it into a programmable oscillator. Thus, any one of 1023 tones can be generated by the proper setting of the switches. A device that ex- D hibits both filter and oscillator functions has been demonstrated in the laboratory."
"The bucket-brigade delay line (BBDL) is a sampled data circuit in which signal samples are stored and manipulated as packets of charge under the control of a digitally generated clock. The clock-controllable time delay function that is realized by the BBDL may be used to implement a number of signal processing functions. The tapped delay line or transversal filter structure is of particular interest, however, since it has wide application in the field of signal processing. The implementation of transversal filters via BBDL's is examined. The impact of nonideal delay line parameters on filter performance is considered and the results of computer simulations are presented. The practicability of monolithic transversal filters is demonstrated and the performance of experimental filters is described."
"The technical concept realized by the channel bank is optimum with respect to a variety of requirements. Considerations of size and fabrication technology recommend a frequency of 50 kHz for the mechanical filter. The general concept of the modulator suggests a filter design with tuned conventional transformers. Since subsequent adjustment of the assembled mechanical part of the filter is undesirable, the provision of finite attenuation poles has been abandoned at the expense of adding two extra resonantors. The design imposes only modest demands as to the reproducibility of the mechanical couplings. By tuning the transformers it is possible to correct minor production tolerances. A special design of the channel and associated signal fiter results in a very low temperature dependence and permits to connect both filters directly in parallel."
"The circuit configuration, operational principles, and some test data on three new types of equalizers applicable for use in FM microwave radio links are described. The equalizers are namely of the reflection type, frequency converter type, and AM-PM conversion type. The reflection type delay equalizer permits variation of relative delay time while keeping the absolute delay time constant at the center frequency or permits variation of absolute delay time while keeping the relative delay time constant. The frequency converter type equalizer adopts a principle whereby variation in local frequency (supplied to the frequency converter) facilitates continuous variation of the relative delay time, absolute delay time, and amplitude frequency response. The AM-PM conversion type differential gain equalizer enables equalization of differential gain through the combined use of the AM-PM converter circuit and the delay circuit."
"The design of active amplitude and delay equalizers to be used in private line data systems is considered. These equalizers provide sufficient flexibility of adjustment so that one type of amplitude equalizer and one type of delay equalizer are sufficient for all applications. They replace families of passive equalizers which permitted relatively limited or no adjustment."
"Symmetry conditions are derived for the amplitude and phase response of vestigial-sideband (VSB) filters. A design technique, based on Szentirmai's frequency transformation, is described for the realization of filters which automatically satisfy these symmetry relations. The synthesis can be carried out with either thesor thez(transformed frequency) variable. It is shown that for sharply selective VSB filters the delay distortion exhibits an even symmetry around the carrier frequency. The equalization of loss and phase distortions can thus be easily carried out in the baseband. A typical design problem is described and solved to illustrate the effectiveness of the suggested synthesis technique."
"It is shown that a second-order digital notch filter is uniquely characterized by two distinct parameters, the notch frequency and the 3-dB rejection bandwidth. As a result, such a filter can be realized using only two multipliers. Methods are outlined to design a notch filter for a prescribed notch frequency and a prescribed 3-dB rejection bandwidth, along with procedures for postdesign adjustment of these parameters. All two-multiplier, canonic and noncanonic, notch filter configurations are developed using the multiplier extraction approach. These networks are then compared with regard to the effect of internal multiplication roundoff errors. Results of computer simulation of the notch filter configurations are also included."
"A digital differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) codec based on AM/DPCM and DPCM/AM digital conversions is presented as an equivalent replacement of a conventional DPCM codec for TV signals by using digital processing technology. A generalized model and equivalent circuit are shown for the digital DPCM codec, and transfer characteristics and quantizing noises are analyzed. The digital DPCM codec is designed for I-MHz TV signals and the performance is verified by experiments. By the use of double integration AM and digital filter technology, it is shown that at the AM sampling rate of 16 MHz the overall SNR performance is sufficiently good for use as a conventional DPCM codec, and the digital code converters can be realized with commercially available transistor-transistor-logic (TTL) medium-scale-integrated (MSI) circuits and low-power emitter-coupled-logic (ECL) integrated circuits (IC's)."
"A thin-film hybrid integrated circuit autobalanced diode transmission gate used in a voice-band pulse-code modulation (PCM) terminal will be described. The gate circuit is designed for sample and hold and resampler operations prior to digitalization and after decoding. As in the sampling circuits previously designed for an experimental high-speed high-performance PCM terminal, the diode quad gate is switched by a current routing emitter-coupled transistor pair. In this configuration the diodes are effectively current switched, resulting in extremely low distortion of the signal samples. With the most commonly used voltage-controlled diode quad gate, subnanosecond switching speeds are required to obtain the same linearity obtained here with much lower switching speeds. In the voice-band coding application, any appreciable gate output voltage offset can impair the overall coder-decoder S/N ratio for low level signals. A novel circuit arrangement has been incorporated into the basic current-routed diode gate circuit, which reduces the output voltage offset normally associated with circuits of this type to very low levels. Although the particular circuit to be described is only moderately fast, a similar configuration having all the features, using higher speed beam leaded transistors and diodes available, would switch in the order of a nanosecond."
 "Phase-locked oscillators (PLO's) have two main areas of application: demodulation and synchronization. In this tutorial paper, a simplified approach to designing PLO's for synchronization is described. In particular, some tradeoffs which can be made between such characteristics as capture range, jitter attenuation, time to lock, and phase offset are presented. As examples of this approach, the method is applied to three circuits in a Picturephone® video coder-decoder (CODEC). The application of an optimum phase comparator is also described."
"A vestigial sideband system seems attractive for transmitting video signals over media of limited bandwidth. Linearity constraints in the unavoidable intermediate equalizers (repeaters) limit the level of the transmitted carrier to such an extent that envelope detection is precluded. In a proposed video system the transmitted signal includes a partially suppressed carrier and an out-of-band pilot tone. At the receiver a voltage of the exact carrier frequency is regenerated from this pilot tone. But synchronous detection of a video signal requires the exact phase of the incoming carrier as well. Distortion considerations limit the width of the guard bands around the partially suppressed carrier to such an extent that conventional filtering cannot be used to retrieve its phase. A special type of a phase-locked loop which adjusts the phase of the locally generated carrier to that of the incoming partially suppressed one was therefore designed and tested. Design considerations, circuit diagrams and test results for this circuit are presented here. Subjective tests have demonstrated the feasibility of the proposed system for transmitting a video signal of 1-MHz bandwidth over a repeatered twisted pair."
"Modern narrow-band pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) and pulse-code modulation (PCM) systems require the generation of precisely shaped pulses in order to avoid intersymbol interference. It is not a simple matter to design analog fiters having pulse responses with the requisite carefully positioned zeros, and this has led researchers to study other approaches. It is shown that the use of a binary transversal filter (BTF) coupled with a simple low-pass filter can generate extremely good pulses with small bandwidths. A BTF consists of a digital shift register and weighting resistor network to construct a staircase approximation to the desired pulse. The attendant circuitry is very simple, such that a highquality pulse generator can be built and adjusted with remarkable ease. The problem of pulse design using BTF's is considered in some generality, and a computational procedure is developed for adjusting the weighting network in the BTF to generate optimum pulse shapes. This method is then applied to several practical cases, and the circuitry required to generate excellent pulses is discussed. Test results on an implementation of such a generator using only five taps are presented, revealing the inherent simplicity and quality of the approach."
"The general configuration of a delay line/90° phase difference network having a single input and two outputs is defined. The group delay from the input to each output is specified over a frequency range as well as the phase difference between the two outputs. A procedure is outlined for obtaining the singularities associated with this type of configuration. The general procedure for realizing active networks corresponding to the singularities is discussed. The actual active network realizations are obtained in a form that is easily implemented as a thickfilm hybrid circuit."
 "A recent conjecture put forward by Talbot is used among other possibilities, to arrive at a new result for bounded real functions."
"A seemingly difficult problem is shown to be easily solvable with the use of generalized matrix inverses."
  "An extension of a recent algorithm is proposed for the rapid determination of steady-state oscillations in large classes of piecewise-linear (PWL) systems. The modified algorithm has been successfully applied and can be directly incorporated at marginal cost into a computer-oriented state-space approach for generating the time-domain response of such systems."
   "A new class of polynomials is defined as a generalization of the polynomials1 + {\\varepsilon}^{2} \\cdot C_{m}^{2}(-jp), whereC_{m}indicates the Chebyshev polynomial of degreem; these polynomials, called multiple critical root equal ripple (MUCROER), are very convneient for the approximation of RC active filter characteristics. Their behavior is equal ripple in the passband but the critical root pair (the one nearest to thej\\omegaaxis) is multiple as in the case of the maximally flat MUCROMAF polynomials; then the polynomial degree is higher but the Q factor of the critical root pair is lower than those of the corresponding Chebyshev polynomial. Thus they allow the realization of RC active filters with more sections but with much lower sensitivity. Some design examples show the remarkable reduction of the critical Q factor."
"A sensitivity analysis for a general second-order multiamplifier RC-active network is described. The conditions for minimized sensitivity to amplifier gain-bandwidth product (GBWP) are established after first formulating the transfer function gain dependence under the assumption of a single-pole representation of the complex amplifier gain. On the basis of a perturbation technique, approximate expressions are presented for the evaluation of the selectivity and frequency sensitivities. By distinguishing a general form of denominator decomposition, the methods available for realization of high Q's with improved sensitivity are explored. Three special cases of the decomposition are identified; two of these, in common with the general case, suggest the use of twin-T null networks with their attendant high passive sensitivities, but the third gives rise to an additional group of circuits 'realizable as double first-order all-pass sections. By comparison with some previous circuits which require matched amplifiers to achieve a low sensitivity, the proposed configurations are shown to be unconditionally insensitive to variations of the GBWP of the amplifiers."
"A systematic method is outlined to realize anmth-order all-pass digital transfer function using onlymmultipliers as a cascade of first-order and/or second-order all-pass sections. The realization is based on the multiplier extraction approach in which thenth-order filter section is considered as a digital(n + 1)-pair of whichnpairs of input and output terminal variables are constrained bynmultipliers. The transfer matrix parameters of the digital(n + 1)-pair, containing only delays and adders, are first identified from which the realization is obtained by inspection. Both canonic and noncanonic realizations are derived. All realizations are then compared with regard to the effect of multiplication roundoff and hardware requirements."
"Recursive formulas of a multiple-sectioned transmission line (waveguide) are given in this paper. They are used for computer simulations of transmission lines with a very large number of sections. Each section may have different characteristics from others. The computation procedures are simple, and the results agree with a previous method."
"The problem dealt with in this paper is the optimal ordering of mother boards of a vast digital system, for instance, so that the total length of the interconnecting wires will be minimal. It is shown that a directed and weighted linear graph may be produced, on which this problem is equivalent to the well-known problem of finding the shortest path between a unique source and a unique sink. An algorithm for tracing the shortest path is presented. This algorithm takes advantage of the special features of the auxiliary graph and reduces significantly the computational effort required. Some upper bounds on the number of operations needed are included."
"A partitioning strategy of sparse matrices is dealt with. In particular, the problem of transforming a nonsingular matrix by symmetric permutation to an optimal bordered triangular form (BTF) is solved. It is shown that the problem is equivalent to the determination of a minimum essential set of a directed graph. An efficient algorithm is given for finding minimum essential sets of a digraph. The method depends on, as a preliminary step, graph simplication using local information at a vertex. A circuit-generation technique based on vertex elimination is then introduced. The algorithm is illustrated with a complete example. A simple electrical network is used to illustrate the use of the BTF in the sparse tableau approach of network analysis."
"The Hessian matrix of the objective function in the problem of circuit design by minimization can be determined explicitly and its use in a second-order minimization process is now feasible and is presented. The process begins with the steepest descent method, followed by a generalized Newton method. At each iteration, the incremental step as prescribed by the respective method is taken unless the function is locally increasing, in which case, the direction is reversed. If the function has increased at a trial point, a cubic interpolation between the current point and that point is performed and the next point is taken to be at the minimum of the cubic. To ensure that the cubic approximation is reasonable, the step size is controlled. Examples are given and the results are compared with those obtained by the gradient method of Fletcher and Powell."
"A synthesis procedure of identical narrow-band high-Q cavities is presented. The procedure handles multiple couplings in a noncascaded form by synthesizing coupling impedances in one step. Necessary and sufficient conditions for realizability of singly and doubly terminated networks are obtained. An example of a sixth-order elliptic function waveguide filter is included."
"he driving point properties of a ladder type distributed RC network, characterized by the distributionsr (x) = r_{o} exp (-ax)andc(x) = c_{o} exp (- bx), are investigated. It is shown that the infinite length network exhibits, at one of the ports, a constant argument impedance of the forms^{-a/(a+b)}, in an asymptotic manner. With a finite length, the approximation is found to be valid over a finite frequency band only, while the asymptotic behavior is that of an impedances^{-1/2}, irrespective of the values ofaandb."
"Dscussion is given on recently published works concerning a problem in lumped-distributed cascade synthesis."
"A direct method for the reduction or inversion of the nodal admittance matrix in rational form is described. The problem of redundant factor generation is satisfactorily overcome and discussion is given to the further problems which arise in applying the method on a digital computer. The method may be used to obtain one or more network functions as rational functions in the Laplace operatorswith constant coefficients."
"A method of generating a multivariable positive real function (MPRF) from the given multivariable real part is presented. The constraints on the given real part, in addition to its nonnegativeness, are studied so that an MPRF can be generated in general. Some particular cases are studied in greater detail. By extending the Strum test to two-variable functions, a procedure for testing the nonnegativeness of a two-variable real part is presented. A transformerless synthesis technique for the realization of a class of two-variable positive real functions is given."
"A method of computing the normalized sensitivities of symbolic transfer functions is presented here for utilization in design applications which can take advantage of the stored symbolic transferfunction coefficients that are generated by recently developed symbolic transfer-function generation algorithms. The normalized sensitivities are computed in terms of quantities that are generated by the transferfunction generation algorithm, so that no additional differentiation or analysis is needed. Matrix formulation of the sensitivities further simplifies the acquisition. In addition, second-order sensitivities are shown to be obtainable in terms of first-order sensitivities."
"A pair of functions, when linearly combined via a parameter, produces a mathematical entity called a pencil of functions. These pencils are especially interesting when a signalg_{1} (t)is processed by a cascade of simple operators such as first-order filters (FOF's)1/(s +q_{l}), q_{l}>0, i = 1,{\\cdots}, n,because the pencils formed by pairs of the resulting signal ensembleg_{l} + y_{l}g_{l+1}possess some very useful properties. Most useful of these concerns the linear dependence of the set of pencils thus produced. It is shown in Parts I and II that a necessary condition for a set of pencil of functions to be linearly dependent is a polynomial equation that must be satisfied by their parameters. Applications of the result include linear system identification and rational modeling of the power density spectrum of a random signal. The former of these is discussed in Part I. System dynamics is estimated in closed form requiring no prior estimates. The estimated parameters coincide with true values in the event of noise-free data. Inner products are utilized for computations, and minimum variance corrections are made when the data are noisy."
"A mathematical technique is described for modeling the power density spectrum of a random process from its periodogram. Advantages realized are the following. 1) The parameters are calculated in closed form not requiring any iterative computations. 2) Their variances decrease inversely as the time of observation increases. 3) The method provides a good rational approximation when the true spectrumS(f)is basically of a nonrational form, such as whenS(f)is flat and band limited. The development utilizes a result on linearly dependent pencils of functions derived in part I."
"A method is presented for identifying the transfer function matrix of a multi-input multi-output finite-dimensional continuous linear time invariant system from input-output observations in the presence of arbitrary initial conditions. A simple and efficient scheme is provided to handle these unknown initial conditions. The method avoids signal differentiation through the use of multiple integration. A set of equations, linear in the unknown parameters of the system transfer function matrix, are formed using the integrated values of inputs and outputs for different values of time. These equations are modified so as to yield an efficient method for computing the system parameters in the presence of additive measurement noise."
"Enumerating functions which, compared with existing techniques, greatly facilitate counting the spanning trees of certain classes of graphs are presented, with examples of their application. One of these functions gives the spanning tree count in terms of the spanning forests of the subgraph which results on separating, from the original ordinary graphG, the complete bipartite subgraph defined by the incidence set of any one of its vertices. Another is the function derived by removing two disjoint incidence sets of a certain type from the graph."
"A lumped component model for a nonlinear RC transmission line is developed with the property that its dc steady-state behavior is the same as that of the RC transmission line itself. In the course of developing the model, it is shown that no loss of generality ensues by assuming the transmission line to have constant capacitance per unit length. The modeling procedure developed is then applied to establish the particular lumped component model, subsequently analyzed, associated with the RC transmission line found in the model of a MOSFET."
"The existence of an operating point within the desired range of the element characteristics for nonlinear uncoupled electric circuits is considered. The case where the desired operating range is bounded is considered and theorems giving explicit bound on the magnitude of the input sources to guarantee the solution falls in the desired range are presented. The case where resistor characteristic is defined on the whole real line is then considered, but only its asymptotic behavior is characterized as monotone. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a solution for this class of circuits for arbitrary inputs connected at arbitrary points are presented. The principal tool that was used throughout this study is the concept of degree of a mapping."
"This paper represents a sequel to the recent work on algebraic n-ports [1]. The problem of synthesis leads naturally to a consideration of canonic decomposition of nonlinearn-ports into basic building blocks. In particular, every current-controlled {voltage-controlled} resistive 2-port is shown to be realizable in a canonic form consisting of a series {parallel} connection between a reciprocal nonlinear 2-port and an element of a new class of nonlinear 2-ports called quasiantireciprocal 2-ports. This basic result is then generalized to allow the synthesis of a very large class of nonlinearn-ports in terms of only two building blocks; namely, reciprocaln-ports and quasi-antireciprocaln-ports. Moreover, the class of quasi-antireciprocaln-ports is shown to be realizable in terms of only nonlinear resistive 1-ports, reciprocal 2-ports, and gyrators."
"A state-space synthesis procedure is given for linear timevarying passive impedance matrices. The synthesis uses only passive components."
"It is proved that the bounded rational property of multivariable functions remains invariant under simultaneous partial differentiation of numerator and denominator polynomials. The proof is simple, and all known related results follow as special cases. Other consequences are mentioned."
"Analytic signals are introduced as certain eigenfunctions of the Hilbert transform operator; that is,z(\\cdot)is termed \"analytic\" if and only if\\hat{z}(t) = -jz(t)for allt, where\\hat{z}(\\cdot)is the Hilbert transform ofz(\\cdot). Similarly, \"dual-analytic\" signals are defined as solutions of the homogeneous equation\\hat{u} = ju. Using this characterization of analytic signals (shown to be equivalent to the usual definition due to Ville [1]), simple proofs are obtained for all known product theorems of the form\\hat{f}g = f\\hat{g}, which are useful in the representation and analysis of modulated waveforms. In addition, parallel theorems for the class of dual-analytic and frequency-translated dual-analytic signals are proven."
"An algorithm for computing the coefficients of a polynomial equation resulting from a bilinear transformation of its variable is described, which compares favorably with the matrix method proposed by Power and improved by Jury and Chan, and which is simpler and easier to program."
"In network synthesis, most of the gradient components of the error functional have to be calculated through integration. If antimetrical networks are introduced, the gradient components with respect to evey dual pair of circuit parameters are linearly dependent on each other. Thus only half the number of integrators for gradient calculation have to be introduced, which leads to a substantial reduction in computation time."
"Filters based on ultraspherical rational functions are considered for various values of the function parameters. It is shown that by varying these parameters one may obtain, in addition to the elliptic low-pass filter, a variety of low-pass, high-pass, and bandpass filters as special cases."
"An extension of the Bessel filter is given for which the transfer function is a rational function with finite zeros. A special case is shown to combine the constant magnitude response of the all-pass filter with the linear phase response of the Bessel filter. A design example for a second-order all-pass constant time delay filter is given; there is good agreement with theory."
"The paper presents an optimization procedure whereby the root sensitivity can be optimized to a prescribed value, whose modulus and argument can be controlled independently. The method of optimizingQandW_{n}. sensitivity is described. It is shown thatQandW_{n}, sensitivity can be reduced to zero by adjusting the argument or the magnitude of the pole sensitivity. Two types of networks are considered for the present synthesis. Details of passive sensitivity analysis are given. It is shown that the passive sensitivities are very low and comparable to those of passiveRLCfilters. The present method is compared with that of Cheung's. To illustrate the method, a bandpass filter havingQ = 10is designed, and the theoretical considerations are confirmed by the experimental results."
"In this correspondence, the values of the parameters of some multilayer distributedRCnotch networks are determined, and the usually accepted values are shown to be in error. The magnitude of the error is illustrated by graphs of the frequency response of the networks."
"The partial differential equation in positionxand timet, which characterizes the voltageV(x,t)along a linear distributedRCnetwork, can be reduced to an ordinary differential equation (ODE) by using the similarity variable. For the semi-infinite line, the reduced ODE will be solved directly without using the iterated error function."
"In this letter, models forx-controlled concave and convex resistors are presented. These models are valid for all prescribed piecewise-linear conductance and resistance functions as defined in [1]. In conjunction with the results in [1], three-terminal resistors, characterized by two families of piecewise-linearV-1curves, are shown to be realizable by ideal diodes, linear resistors, independent sources, linear-controlled sources, and square-law devices."
"The relation between roundoff noise and attenuation sensitivity in digital filters with fixed-point arithmetic given in a letter by Fettweis (A Fettseis, IEEE Trans. Citcuit Theory, Vol. CT-20, pp. 174-175, March 1973) is found to be overly simplified. Some examples where the preceding relation does not hold are given along with a tentative explanation."
  "This paper reviews and compares the four multiple-loop feedback techniques used to realize high-order narrow-band filters; namely: follow-the-leader feedback (FLF), primary resonator block (PRB), leapfrog (LF), and modified leapfrog (MLF) techniques. The comparison is based upon the following criteria: design ease and flexibility, sensitivity performance, insensitivity to design errors due to nonideal operational amplifiers, and tunability. In all comparisons the simple but highly sensitive cascade technique is used as a reference. Several examples are cited which indicate comparative trends in sensitivity performance. Finally the computer program used to realize minimum sensitivity FLF networks is described."
"BandpassRCactive filters can be realized, according to Bruton's transformation method, with resistively coupled parallel resonators which are formed by parallel connecting of a resistance and a frequency-dependent netative resistance. This paper describes a single operational amplifier resonator which has an inherent finite quality factor. BandpassRCactive filters can be thus implemented when the passband is relatively narrow, with performance characteristics comparable to that of currently usedLCfilters, up to frequencies of a few kilohertz."
"This paper describes a recursive computational algorithm for computing spectral factors of continuous-time and discrete-time power spectrum matrices. The matrices need not be positive definite. Convergence rates of the recursive equation are studied."
"A salient feature of proposed method is the incorporation, as a design parameter, of a new variablemin the decomposition of the second-order polynomials. It has been shown that the performance criteria such asQsensitivity and\\omega_{p}sensitivity are accordingly expressed as functions ofmthereby leading to possible optimizations. The continuous change of the variable encompasses not only existing optimum decompositions but also a variety of other decompositions which may be regarded as optimum with respect to diverse performance criteria. Two types of decomposition corresponding toRC: gyrator synthesis andRC:NIC synthesis are used to demonstrate the proposed method."
"A frequency-variation method is established for identifying a linear system transfer function from a single set of frequency response data. The method generally applies three different Cauer continued fraction forms. Based on the real and imaginary parts of the frequency response data, a corresponding transfer function can be identified. The identification processes can be carried out with a digital computer."
"A computational technique for determination of the important figures of merit of differential amplifiers is proposed. The method evolves from a reformulation of the transfer characteristics of differential amplifiers to clearly define the dc and ac performance of the amplifier. With this reformulation, ideal differential amplifier performance can be precisely defined, and expressions for the important transfer gains, common-mode rejection ratio, and dc offset voltages can be derived in terms of the differential-mode and common-mode gains and component mismatches. These expressions are easily implemented in a computer simulation package. The usefulness of the technique is illustrated by example."
"A set of chemical species \"interconnected\" by reaction pathways is commonly referred to as a chemical network. We show that chemical networks are mathematically equivalent to a class of multiport networks. Hence, abstract circuit theory can be applied to study chemical systems. Both linear-graph and bond-graph representations of reaction networks are presented. We also indicate how network methods can be employed to treat coupled transport and chemical reaction processes."
"A method is presented for deriving quasi-power invariants of linear or linearized networks in linear or linearized embedding in matrix and scalar form. These complement the adimensional \"cross ratio\" invariants discussed in an earlier paper. Connections and differences are illustrated by means of three practical examples: the Q-factor of a resonator, a generalized form of Hines' switching theorem, and a \"figure of merit\" for materials in an electromagnetic cavity. The wellknown noise matrix of Haus and Adler is recovered as a particular case of a more general form. A few new invariants are presented. The relationship with Tellegen's theorem (for the scalar case) is discussed."
"A proof is given that it is impossible to realize an ideal gyrator by connecting a controlled source across one of the ports of any well-defined constant passive reciprocal three-port network (composed of positive resistors and ideal transformers) with the controlling variable being some voltage or current appearing inside the three-port network."
"It is shown that the terminal capacity matrix of a nonoriented communication net and the open-circuit impedance matrix of ann-port resistor network without internal loops and with a star port configuration have identical properties. A new set of necessary and sufficient conditions characterizing such matrices is presented."
"The well-known relation for an all-pass function is generalized by the introduction of two parametersk_{a}andk_{b}makingF(s)=\\frac{EvP(s)-k_{a}OdP(s)}{EvP(s)+k_{b}OdP(s)}whereP(s)is a Hurwitz polynomial, whileEvP(s)andOdP(s)are its even and odd parts, respectively. It is shown that the amplitude, phase, and group delay of such a generalized all-pass function ripple, and that the ripples are dependent on the two introduced parameters and their ratioK = k_{a}/k_{b}. Thus the name \"ripple-pass function.\" Some interesting and important features of the discussed function have been considered here. The ripple-pass function is suitable for practical applications such as amplitude, phase, and/or delay equalization, or for design of narrow-bandpass or bandstop (notch) filters. The ripple-pass function can be easily realized by using simple passive and active networks."
"Reports on the Telesat Canada satellite communications system called Anik.  Discusses the technology, design, and communications capabilities of the system."
 "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers"
  "Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Reports on the name of Harold Jacobs  with the Harry Diamond Memorial Award"
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "The field of communications is obviously a very broad one and we can't expect to cover it in its entirety. I would therefore suggest we narrow down on a few very specific areas of communications with substantial social implications that are either in the imminent growth category or near future status. Examples might include domestic communications satellites, videophone, two-way cable and the wired city concept, computer communication and data. networks, etc. What are the implications to the broad public of the introduction of these and other communication systems and facilities? Will they lead to reduced communication costs, to a better informed citizenry, to better educational opportunities, to improved communications between individuals and/or businesses, etc.? Are there possible deleterious effects that must be kept in mind?-the privacy question, increased homogeneity of an already highly homogeneous society, too much \"stay at home\" activity, the possible inability of humans to cope with faster and faster rates of transmission of more and more information (as suggested by some social scientists), etc.? If we can get some kind of discussion going of a very specific nature, we may be able to come up with position papers for publication in the Transactions, Newsletter, and other journals, organize sessions and panel discussions at appropriate conferences and meetings, get local sections to sponsor meetings, set up joint meetings with social scientists interested in the social implications of communicatiorls, interact with the broad public in very specific ways, interact with universities, etc."
  "Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
  "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
  "Reports on research and development in communications technologies and systems at the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst."
  "Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
  "Lists IEEE Communications Society members who were elected Fellows."
 "Reports on the recipient of the IEEE Field Award."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
   "Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Reports on how electronic and communications technologies and services are driving market growth in Australia."
 "Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
      "Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities or positions sought."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
 "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
  "Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
 "The present Communications Society Editor is stepping aside, effective this issue. The new Editor, Stephen B. Weinstein, and his crew are taking over. The outgoing Editor gratefully recognizes all who got involved."
 "Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
  "Reports on professionalism in the telecommunications industry."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
    "Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Reports on new technologies and applications in the telecommunications industry."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Discusses the historical development of the International Satellite Organisation (INTELSAT), its organisation and future developments. Outlines the operating formats of INTELSAT IV, the communications capacity and optimum terminal size. Discusses future programs leading to greater communications capacity. Presents a table comparing anticipated characteristics of a 1980 communication satellite with INTELSAT IV characteristics."
    "Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides several short items that may include society events, news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Outlines the structure of the train control system comprising of three subsystems: automatic train protection; automatic train operation and automatic train supervision including automatic car identification. The computer complex employs both a primary control computer and a backup computer. Additional communication facilities include: the backbone cable transmission system; the mobile radio system; the telephone service with an electronic PABX; the public address system and the closed circuit television system; train control alarms; and a fire and intrusion system etc."
 "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A 280-Mb/s digital coaxial repeater employing two-level transmission with quantized feedback for dc-wander control has been designed and constructed. The linear channel forward path includes a 10-MHz low-frequency cutoff, and the missing low frequencies are supplied by a filtered signal from the repeater output. This approach effectively removes dc wander without use of code restriction, making it possible to use two-level rather than three-level transmission without loss of information transmission. Eye margins are consequently significantly greater than for previously designed 280-Mb/s three-level repeaters. The bandwidth ratio, or ratio of upper to lower 3-dB down points of the signal transmission path, is only 10 for this approach compared to several hundred for the three-level bipolar approach (and more for codes with higher transmission efficiency). This results in greatly reduced susceptibility to interference from lightning and power surges, elimination of preamplifier overload, and simplified repeater design."
"This paper deals with the requirements for the design of digital companding techniques in either delta or pulse-code modulation. Both delta and pulse-code modulation convert analogue signals into binary signals and in both these systems the dynamic range is normally small. By the use of companding, the dynamic range can be extended. Since both delta and pulse-code modulation are digital methods, they are well suited to the use of digital companding techniques. The binary transmitted signal normally contains a measure of the system performance. By observing certain patterns in this binary signal and using the occurrence or nonoccurrence of these patterns to change the gain of the modulator and demodulator, syllabic companding can be obtained. The selection of the binary pattern and the rate of change of gain of the modulator and demodulator, determines both the point at which the companding operates and the attack and decay times. The ratio of the largest to the smallest value of the gain determines the dynamic range. By the use of digital circuitry, the gain can be controlled with sufficient accuracy over a large dynamic range. The paper deals with the principles involved in selecting the binary patterns to control the gain of the modulator and as examples a delta modulation system and a pulse-code modulation system with companding ratios of 60 dB are discussed."
"The exact input-output relationship is derived for a firstorder automatic gain control loop wherein the variable gain is an exponential function of the gain control voltage. The exact solution is compared to the linearized solution, and the condition for valid linearization is given."
"A modulation scheme for varying the data rate and transmitted power in accordance with received signal strengths in a fading channel is discussed. The system, using ideal feedback, performs better than one using only rate control with the same constraint on bandwidth."
"Based on the Fokker-Planck techniques, the time-dependent mean and variance of phase error of the first-order phase-locked loop in the presence of white Gaussian noise have been obtained via stochastic differential equations. The steady-state variance reduced from the transient case is simple in its form and agrees closely with the previous results obtained by different approaches."
"Speech analysis/synthesis algorithms utilizing linear prediction coefficients have certain advantages over those employing formantbased techniques. For example, 4-kHz speech samples may be synthesized using a basic sequence of 10 multiply/adds followed by a single addition of the current sample of the excitation function. Real-time software synthesis of 4-kHz speech is possible (using this technique) on certain 16-b minicomputers, but the central processing unit (CPU) overhead may approach 100 percent. We describe an economical (< 600-dollar) hardware realization of a 4-kHz digital linear predictive speech synthesizer which requires, at most, a CPU overhead of about 40 percent real time. The device is constructed of standard TTL/MOS logic and consists (essentially) of a high speed 2's complement multiplier/adder capable of calculating a 26-b product (10-b speech samples, 16-b coefficients) in 0.33 μs, and a dual shift register. In addition, a procedure is discussed which enables the device to be used both as a formant synthesizer for vowels or voiced consonant production, and as a predictive synthesizer for other speech sounds. This procedure, hybrid synthesis, permits the utilization of formant concatenation techniques and reduces the coefficient storage required to specify vowels/voiced consonants by about 60 percent."
"A considerable amount of literature exists on the problem of selecting an efficient set ofNdigital signals with in-phase and quadrature components for use in a suppressed carrier data transmission system. However, the signal constellation which minimizes the probability of error in Gaussian noise, under an average power constraint, has not been determined when the number of signals is greater than two. In this paper an asymptotic (large signal-to-noise ratio) expression, of the minimum distance type, is derived for the error rate. Using this expression, a gradient-search procedure, which is initiated from several randomly chosenN-point arrays, converges in each case to a locally optimum constellation. The algorithm incorporates a radial contraction technique to meet the average signal power constraint. The best solutions are described for several values ofNand compared with well-known signal formats. As an example, the best locally optimum 16-point constellation shows an advantage of about 0.5 dB in signal-signal-to-noise ratio over quadrature amplitude modulation. The locally optimum constellations are the vertices of a trellis of (almost) equilateral triangles. AsN \\rightarrow \\infty, it is rigorously proved in the Appendix that the optimum constellations tend toward an equilateral structure, and become uniformly distributed in a circle."
"Quantization and sampling effects on the digital phasedlocked loop (DPLL) structures obtained for demodulation of anglemodulated signals using extended Kalman filter algorithms are investigated for the high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) case in this paper. First, the problem of quantization is considered. The validity of the uniform white sequence model for quantizer error in the DPLL is established independent of the sampling rate. Simulation results are presented for several quantizer word lengths. Also, an effective SNR is defined which allows prediction of quantized performance from unquantized results. Secondly, minimum sampling requirements for the DPLL are considered. The effect of sampling rate variation upon the predicted phase error covariance is examined. Again, simulation results are presented and compared to the predicted phase error covariance values. This results in an analytical method for determining minimum sampling rates for the DPLL. Minimum sampling rates for quantized DPLL have also been determined using the effective SNR previously defined."
"An upper bound on the probability of error for coherent phase-shift-keyed (CPSK) systems operating in the presence of peaklimited interference is derived. Such a bound is particularly useful in analyzing the effect of co-channel and adjacent channel interference on CPSK systems. The bound is often tight enough to be employed as a system design tool, and is computationally simple to apply."
"An analog-digital hybrid decoder which combines amplitude and duration threshold detection and bipolar violation sensing capabilities for decoding bipolar signals is described. The main features of the decoder are: 1) a preamplifier with automatic gain control (AGC), 2) amplitude and duration threshold detectors, 3) a bipolar violation sensor, and 4) a unipolar pulse generator. The decoder is extremely robust and is self-synchronizing. If, during operation, burst errors occur, introducing bipolar violations in the received signal, the decoder decides that, where a violation has occurred, a binary \"0\" was transmitted. If, for some reason, the decoder is perturbed from its synchronous condition, it requires at most 1-b duration to reacquire synchronization. That is, the decoded message contains at most one erroneous bit."
"Communication systems for high-speed ground vehicles which employ coupled surface waveguides are considered in this paper. We determine communication errors resulting from AM and FM transmission for the coupling configuration of two randomly separated Goubau lines as a function of the various system parameters. Results are given which indicate that filtering of the transmitted and received signals leads to enhanced communications."
"Digital baseband and digital subcarrier noncoherent optical communication systems are considered in this paper. Expressions are developed for the bit error probability of optical subcarrier systems which use a nonliner polarization modulator and either a one-detector or a two-detector receiver, The expressions are evaluated numerically, and the results are used to compare the one- and two-detector subcarrier systems with the corresponding one- and two-detector baseband systems for a fLxed bit error probability."
"A simple second-order digital phase-locked loop has been designed to synchronize itself to a square-wave subcarrier. Analysis and experimental performance are given for both acquisition behavior and steady-state phase error performance. In addition, the damping factor and the noise bandwidth are derived analytically. Although all the data are given for the square-wave subcarrier case, the results are applicable to arbitrary subcarriers that are odd symmetric about their transition region."
"A model that is sufficiently general to describe the predominant statistical characteristics of the output of many real optical detectors is formulated. This model is used to study the optimum receiver processing for direct-detection optical communication systems. In particular, the structures of detectors and estimators for randomly filtered doubly stochastic Poisson processes observed in additive white Gaussian noise are considered. Representations for the posterior statistics of a vector-valued Markov process that modulates the intensity of the doubly stochastic Poisson process are obtained. Quasi-optimum estimators and detectors are specified in general terms and specialized for several important applications. These include a demodulator for subcarrier angle modulation, a detector structure for binary signaling with known intensities, and a detector structure for binary signaling in the turbulent atmosphere."
"A new signal-processing technique, spectrum clipping, has been investigated. The spectrum clipper is a passive two-port nonlinear circuit that employs parametric excitation of vibrational modes in a magnetoelastic crystal. Spectrum clipping can be considered as a means of recovering periodic and nearly periodic signals from noise. signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) improvements of up to 30 dB are predicted, the largest improvement occuring for simple sinusoidal signals. Preliminary theoretical and experimental results suggest that spectrum clipping may conceivably provide a low-cost method of interference reduction for domestic communications systems."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An error in calculating the first and second moments of the \"exponential-Rayleigh\" distribution appears in a recent paper; this correspondence presents the correct calculations."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Sequential decoding has been found to be an efficient means of communicating at low undetected error rates from deep space probes, but another failure mechanism known as erasure or computational overflow remains a significant problem. The erasure of a block occurs when the decoder has not finished decoding that block at the time that it must be output. The erasure rate can be unacceptably high even when the decoder is spending over half of its time idly awaiting incoming data. By drawing upon analogies in computer time sharing, this concise paper develops a buffer-management strategy which reduces the decoder idle time to a negligible level, and therefore improves the erasure probability of a sequential decoder. For a decoder with a speed advantage of ten and a buffer size of ten blocks, operating at an erasure rate of 10-2, use of this buffer-management strategy reduces the erasure rate to less than 10-4."
"A pulse-position modulated (PPM) optical communication system using narrow pulses of light for data transmission requires accurate time synchronization between transmitter and receiver. The presence of signal energy in the form of optical pulses suggests the use of a pulse edge-tracking method of maintaining the necessary timing. In this report the edge-tracking operation in a binary PPM system is examined, taking into account the quantum nature of the optical transmissions. Consideration is given first to \"pure\" synchronization using a periodic pulsed intensity, then extended to the case where position modulation is present and auxiliary bit decisioning is needed to aid the tracking operation. Performance analysis is made in terms of timing error and its associated statistics. Timing error variances are shown as a function of system signal-to-noise ratio."
"An algorithm previously used for estimating parameters of the vocal tract with a digital filter is here reexamined from the point of view of equalization theory. The procedure of adjusting equalizer taps to minimize the mean-squared sample values at the output of the equalizer (while keeping a particular equalizer tap fixed at unit value) is shown to result in an equalizer that inverts the channel provided that 1) the channel is minimum phase, and 2) the equalizer is one-sided."
"An algorithm for assigning a node as center in a communication network with respect to a reliability criterion is given. For a nonplanar network a suboptimal procedure is proposed."
"This paper is one of three which describe a digital carrier-concentrator system with elastic traffic capacity. It deals with the traffic engineering considerations from a systems application viewpoint. One companion paper [1] describes the system organization, the switching function, supervision and control, and the reframing procedure. The other [2] describes the line equipment, delta codecs, line signaling functions, and an in-service line test facility. The system is unique in that the concentration switching function is nonblocking, but message channel quality varies with instantaneous traffic load. Realistic traffic limits are determined from consideration of message channel transmission degradations which may occur for small fractions of the busy hour. A suitable criterion is proposed, and the traffic capacity is calculated therefrom. The system provides telephone service to 256 subscriber lines over a singleT1digital line."
"This is the third of three papers [l], [2] dealing with an elastic carrier-concentrator system. The functioning of the subscriber line equipment is described herein. The system serves 256 telephone subscriber lines by digital concentration switching and transmission of multiplexed message channels over a singleT1transmission line. The concentration switching function is nonblocking. Message channels are the individual communication links between terminals and are created on demand at the request of active subscriber lines. They are not merely inactive without service requests; they do not exist unless service is requested. The created message channels serve for their normal communication function and, in addition, carry for each line the ancillary functions of dialing, ringing, and pay-station coin disposal. Message channels are coded by delta modulation, which permits flexible digital concentration and provides a smooth tradeoff of channel quality versus the instantaneous traffic load. Each of two complementary subscriber line interface units, one per line at each end, provides the delta-modulation encoding and decoding functions for the analog voice-band signal input and output and, by overriding the delta codec, provides the desired signaling functions of dialing, ringing, etc. The line interface units provide the major equipment interface between the subscriber line and the digitalT1line. An integral test facility permits remote loop-back of any selected subscriber line unit via a test channel to the office terminals and at the same time connects the subscriber loop to an auxiliary programmed test facility which may transmit pertinent loop-test results to the office terminal."
"A basic inequality of le Gall, involving the congestion in four-stage switching networks, is generalized. The basic inequality remains valid in the case of arbitrary occupancy distributions on all link groups in the network."
"An upper bound on the probability of error for multiphase coherent phase-shift-keying (CPSK) systems with intersymbol interference and additive Gaussian noise is presented. The bound is derived through the Chernoff bounding technique and is given by a simple closed-form expression. To demonstrate its applicability the bound is computed for quaternary and octonary CPSK systems with various \"typical\" pulse responses. Graphical comparisons with other measures of the probability of error show the relative efficacy of the bound."
"In reducing the data from a recent series of high altitude balloon to aircraft measurements atLband, some qualitative results were reported concerning the negative correlation between the vertical and horizontal polarizations. Some of these data are presented in strip chart form to display this effect. In addition, a plot of the sum of the squares of the two polarizations is also presented to indicate the level of the received power and the possible benefits of power combining. Finally, the joint envelope density is examined in the 1imit of deep fading and the power fades are compared with those for independent combining."
"The properties of the frame-difference signals arising from updated \"moving\" areas and nonupdated \"stationary\" areas in conditional replenishment interframe encoders are examined. Expressions for the correlation functions and power density spectra of these signals are developed assuming an infinite image field undergoing uniform linear motion. These expressions are modified so as to include the effect of camera integration. Experimentally obtained power spectra are in good agreement with those predicted. Three-dimensional frame-difference correlation functions are evaluated using a realistic image correlation function. The properties of the frame-difference correlation functions in directions parallel and perpendicular to the direction of movement, and in the temporal direction are delineated. It is shown that the correlation function of the frame-difference signal arising from temporally uncorrelated noise is fundamentally different in updated areas compared with nonupdated areas."
"The operation of a hybrid tracking (HT) phase-locked loop (PLL) in radio-frequency interference (RFI) is considered. Results from a perturbation analysis for the loop phase error in continuous-wave (CW) RFI are found to compare favorably with results obtained by digital computer simulation. These results, together with simulation results for wide-band (in comparison to the loop bandwidth) RFI, indicate that loop structures which track both on the signal carrier and modulation components are advantageous in RFI plus Gaussian noise backgrounds."
"A new approach to the spectral-density concept of a cyclostationary process is presented. This approach is based on the observation that a cyclostationary process can be split into a number of wide-sense stationary subprocesses. The spectral densities of these subprocesses, defined as the Fourier transform of their autocorrelation functions, are nonoverlapping functions of frequency. The sum of the spectral densities of these wide-sense stationary subprocesses yields the well-known expression for the spectral density of a cyclostationary process."
"A criterion for differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) encoding of video signals at a given baud rate has been developed minimizing the mean square error (mse) introduced due to both sampling and quantization. The performances based on this criterion have been compared with the corresponding subjective performances measured earlier."
"Two approximate methods for analysis of large-scale probems using dynamic channel assignment and a cellular structure are described. Such problems arise in the areas of mobile radio telephony and in multibeam satellite systems. The grade of service of individual zones is considered in detail. The problem is analyzed in terms of the carried erlang load rather than in terms of the system states. These methods are shown to be of a much lower order of difficulty than available methods."
"An error detecting data test set with a pseudorandom bit test pattern is analyzed using generating functions. A modification to the common design that combines the advantages of automatic and manual synchronization modes is proposed; it provides automatic synchronization and records one error count for each bit in error."
"Two adaptive delta modulation (ADM) coders, one for A/D conversion of speech and the other for fiat spectrum signals, have been developed by incorporating a second adaptive feedback loop around the basic delta modulation (DM) coder. The dynamic range of the coder for integrated spectrum has been extended to more than 35 dB with a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) > 28 dB, for a pulse-repetition frequency (PRF) of 32 kbits/s only, by using an adaptive circuit consisting of digital/analog slope detector and an FET expander. For flat spectrum signals, similar results with constant SNR over the band are obtained at a bit rate of 40 kbits/s. Thus the coders have performances equivalent to those of a 7-digit PCM, using only 32 and 40 kbits/s, respectively."
"A discrete receiver structure is introduced that consolidates the problems of bit detection and bit synchronization to provide optimal estimates of bit values without explicit knowledge of the transition epoch. Equations are developed for the propagation of the discrete a posteriori density function on an interval-by-interval basis. The general model is developed for a signal corrupted by additive and multiplicative noise, and the receiver structure is shown to be equivalent to a synchronous discrete receiver. The model is applied to on-off-keyed (OOK) modulation in the presence of multipath."
"In this paper, we focus our attention on the decisionfeedback approach to carrier synchronization of offset quadrature phase-shift-keyed (QPSK) and more generally offset quadrature amplitude-shift-keyed (QASK) systems. In particular, we present two decision-feedback loops for tracking offset QPSK and offset QASK, which are modifications of comparable loops previously given in the literature for carrier synchronization of QPSK and QASK respectively. The performance gains obtained using such synchronization techniques are discussed. In particular, we show that the use of offset-quadrature communications rather than conventional quadrature communications permits a doubled loop bandwidth at fixed data rate, signal-to-noise ratio and probability of error. However, the more efficient phase-tracking loop (decision-feedback as opposed to phase-locked loop) used reduces substantially the total signal-to-noise ratio required."
"Cost-Estimate Relations (CER's) are derived for launch/orbit insertion, payload/satellite(s), and the total satellite system. These CER's are expressed in terms of orbit altitude (or apogee), orbit type (circular or elliptical), and payload weight. The CER's are also presented briefly in terms of number of rings, number of satellites per ring, and satellite weight. They are applicable only to recurring (production) costs and include an 80percent \"learning-curve rate.\" Satellite-subsystem percent weights are also discussed for single-axis and three-axis stabilized satellites, and guidance is developed for estimating total satellite weight given the required RF power."
"We obtain numerical results of the attenuation and phase constants of the lowest order modes in a rectangular tunnel with an axial wire for various values of physical parameters that are important in intramine communications and remote control. Besides the perturbed free modes of the empty guide, a TEM-like mode, which is highly influenced by the wire impedance and location, is identified. Also the excitation mechanisms of the modes are considered from the standpoint of point-to-point communication within a mine tunnel."
"Block codes are multilevel codes of constant length whose codewords are the channel encodings of binary sequences of constant length. The spectral density calculation of pulse trains resulting from the use of these codes is dealt with. Under the assumption that the encoding be represented by a finite-state synchronous sequential machine, by means of homogenous Markov chain theory, the spectral density is evaluated in closed form. Both the continuous and the discrete spectral components are easily obtained as soon as the encoder functions are specified. The result obtained is particularly attractive since the finite-state machine model can be used to represent a broad class of encoding schemes of engineering interest. As an example, the spectral density is calculated in the case of the Franaszek MS-43 code."
"An innovations approach to data compression as a viable method to improve the efficiency of data transmission is proposed. The correlated source is modeled by a ratio of polynomials with slowly time-varying coefficients. Data compression is achieved in three steps by: 1) dithering the source signal with a zero mean white noise process to enable the application of the innovations concept, 2) transforming the dithered signal to an innovations process (correlation removal), and 3) quantizing the resultant innovations process to remove unnecessary fidelity. An adaptive implementation of the data compression system using tapped-delay lines (TDL's) is obtained using the steepest descent method. Preliminary computer simulation demonstrates that, for binary data transmission, a reduction in mean square signal value of approximately 3 is attained with no observable error at a 31-dB signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)."
"Base station spatial diversity measurements at 821 MHz have been performed in a New Jersey suburban area using directional antennas separated by 3.4, 6.6, and 10 wavelengths. The cross-correlation coefficients between the signals received by pairs of antennas have been computed as a function of antenna height, antenna separation, and signal polarization. Both vertical and horizontal antenna spacings have been investigated. The cross-correlation coefficients were obtained by measurements in ten different probe areas, ranging from 1 to 5 miles in distance from the base station. Results of the measurements indicate that for vertically polarized antennas 100 ft above ground level, an antenna separation of 6-7 wavelengths in the horizontal plane provides sufficient signal decorrelation for satisfactory diversity operation."
"Delta modulation is used with a unique method of selective time-division multiplexing (TDM) to obtain concentration switching and digital transmission of telephone subscriber traffic. The switching function is nonblocking and the system can accept traffic without limit. There is, however, a tradeoff between instantaneous traffic load and system transmission quality. A switchsettable blocking limit is provided to prevent excessive degradation. Realistic traffic limits are determined by consideration of messagechannel degradations which may occur for a small fraction of the busy hour. With nominal traffic loading, the system provides telephone service to 256 subscriber lines connected to one or more remote terminals separately located along a single two-wayT1digital line. This paper is the first of three which deal with different aspects of the system. It describes the system organization, the switching function, supervision and control, and the reframing procedure. A second paper describes traffic engineering considerations for the system [1]. A third paper describes the subscriber line equipment, delta codecs, line signaling functions, and an in-service line test facility [2]."
"The effects of both random and periodic cable impedance irregularities on the performance of baseband digital coaxial systems are considered. A cable-noise model in which these effects are statistically characterized as Gaussian-like noise is developed and related to system error rate. Based on relationships derived here between the backscattered signal and the attenuation distortion in the forward cable transmission path, the cable noise is then expressed in terms of return loss parameters. As an example of the utility of the resulting expression, a cable-noise criterion is formulated and applied in the assessment of coaxial cables intended for use in a 274-Mbit/s digital repeatered line."
"It is anticipated that computer-communications systems designed for the purpose of transmitting data from geographically clustered terminals to a remote computer will employ multiplexing techniques in order to reduce transmission costs. A procedure is described for determining, under three criteria, the optimum computer buffer size assuming that the data traffic arriving at the multiplexer is Poisson and that the multiplexer and data link (transmission line) can, together, be represented by a constant-holding-time server. The approach taken is that since the computer is in tandem with the multiplexer and data link, we can make use of analytical results on the output process of an M/D/1 queueing system (the multiplexer and data link) in order to design the computer buffer. A comparison is made between the proposed procedure, the \"worst case\" designs, and other possible analytical approaches to the problem."
"Error detection and retransmission are used as error control in many computer communication systems. In these systems, random length messages are partitioned into fixed size blocks for ease in data handling and memory management. A mathematical model is developed in this paper to determine the optimal message block size that minimizes the expected waiting time in retransmission and acknowledgment delay and thus maximizes channel efficiency. The model considers two classes of error detection and retransmission strategies: 1) stop-and-wait and 2) continuous transmissions. Using the relationships among acknowledgment time, channel transmission rate, channel error characteristics (random error or burst error), average message length, optimal block size are computed from the model and presented in graphs. The model and the graphs should be useful as a guide in the selection of the optimal fixed message block size for computer communication systems."
"This paper describes a study of transmission control procedure for computer-to-computer and computer-computer-to-terminal communication through a public packet-switched network. Four types of basic data link are defined over a packet travel path in the network, and the functions required for the data link are discussed. A process number and its associated control method are proposed as a method of packet-interleaved communication. By applying the result of the discussion and introducing the concept of a data link and a process number, a transmission control method and a call control method between packet-switched network and computers are proposed for the packet-interleaved communication on the basis of the HDLC procedure (high-level data link control procedure)."
"This paper presents the results of an attempt to develop a rational approach to the design of a practical digital data compression system. The system analyzed is buffer controlled and compresses data by use of a zero-order floating aperture predictor algorithm. For simplicity of analysis and ease in calculation the data to be compressed is modeled as uniformly distributed Markov data. The approach indicated can be extended to other data sources as well. The optimized system selects a set of compressor thresholds or aperture levels, which minimize the mean-squared error between the transmitter input and reconstructed receiver output data. The optimal policy, for this system, is shown to be a function of the present and past contents of the transmitter's buffer, the buffer length, the number of bits of amplitude resolution, the normalized autocorrelation coefficient of the data, and the transmission ratio. The necessary buffer contents for determination of the optimal policy are the queue length and amplitude of the present and past words in the buffer. After making tradeoffs between mean-squared error and buffer size, the optimized system can be implemented with low hardware cost due to the small buffer lengths required."
"A general purpose communication processor is investigated as a vehicle for decoding two specific classes of cyclic codes having properties appropriate for voice grade data communication channels. First, a model of a processor is described, and then it is used in conjunction with two cost metrics to measure the complexity of programming the decoding functions. No special Galois field (GF) arithmetic instructions are used. For decoding both Bose-Chadhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) and Fire codes, a method which allows the encoding program to be used in the initial steps of decoding is given and evaluated. The evaluation indicates that both encoding and decoding, for voice grade data communication facilities, can be done in contemporary communication processors with core storage in the 1000 word range and instruction cycles in the microsecond range. In addition, the results show how the cost metrics vary with parameters such as the block length, the number of errors or the burst length correctable, and the block error probability introduced by the channel. Other conclusions, such as the areas in which significant improvements are needed and in which hardware assist can improve performance are drawn from data giving the relative costs of the elements of the decoding process."
"When messages are transmitted as a series of possibly noncontiguous packets, an effective priority is introduced which favors short messages. The strength of this effect upon transmission time is investigated and compared with schemes where an additional priority scheme is imposed. It is found that imposing a real priority structure can markedly influence delays when: first, the trunks are relatively heavily loaded, and second, the nodes' incoming traffic arrives over high-speed channels."
"Demand assignment of satellite power on a call-call-by-call basis results in increased system capacity. The probability that a call is blocked is not readily available, and standard formulas commonly used for the Poisson and Erlang B traffic model cannot be directly applied. Expressions for blocking probabilities are derived here for fully variable, variable-source, and variable-destination demand assignments. A numerical example is given for their application in a network of terminals of varying sizes and known point-to-point traffic."
"In this paper we develop a simple encoder/decoder pair which utilizes the natural redundancy of a source for error detection. It does so with no loss in rate of transmission and with only minimal hardware cost."
"The optimum observation interval for phase-continuous frequency-shift keying (FSK) is longer than2T."
"Minimum (frequency) shift keying (MSK) is a digital modulation technique which can be viewed either as frequency-shift keying (FSK) with peak frequency deviation precisely equal to\\pm(1/4)R_{L}where RLis the link bit rate or as an offset-keyed quaternary phase-shift-keyed modulation. In the absence of bandwidth or amplitude limiting between the modulator and the demodulator, theE_{b}/N_{0}performance of MSK is identical to that of coherently detected binary phase-shift keying (PSK). This paper briefly reviews and defines MSK. It then presents a system model in which a tandem assembly of a transmit band-limiting filter, a hard limiter, and a receive band-limiting filter are interposed between an ideal modulator and demodulator. This model is aimed at simulating actual links (such as spacecraft-to-ground links) in which channel bandwidth(B_{c})constraints are important, postmodulation filtering at RF is objectionable, and transmission through efficient transmitters which operate as amplitude limiters is a requirement. An analysis then derives theE_{b}/N_{0}degradation due to both bandwidth and amplitude limiting. Band limiting alone causes intersymbol interference on the data carried by each of the quadrature phasors but no interphasor crosstalk under the set of assumptions used. With amplitude limiting also present, an interphasor crosstalk mechanism exists. The average symbol distortion, symbol energy reduction, and noise reduction are derived for several periodic waveforms. For composite systems with 3-dB bandwidth(B_{L})-to-RLratios of at least 0.6, the theoreticalE_{b}/N_{0}degradation is less than 1 dB. Parametric experimental data are then reported on the postmodulation spectrum of a transmitter with band limiting plus subsequent hard amplitude limiting. Data are also presented on theE_{b}/N_{0}degradation measured using tandem assemblies of a bandlimiting filter, an amplitude limiter, and a second band-limiting filter. The amplitude limiter substantially increases the level of the spectral side lobes beyond the main lobe. It was found that for all significant values of transmit bandpass filtering plus subsequent amplitude limiting, 99 percent of the transmitted energy is contained within Bc= 1.1 RL. Further, littleE_{b}/N_{0}degradation (tenths of a decibel) was measured if BLwas greater than 0.65 RL. A rapid degradation ofE_{b}/N_{0}occurred whenB_{L} = 0.55 R_{L}. These data apply for the band-band-amplitude-band limited system model. The amplitude limiter placed between the transmit and receive filters caused interphasor crosstalk and distortion of the data symbol shapes as predicted; however,E_{b}/N_{0}degradation caused by the amplitude-limiting effects by themselves (which are a function of BL) never exceeded 0.3 to 0.5 dB for the cases studied."
"An asymptotic form for the spectral density of a continuous-phase digital FM signal is derived. This expression is valid at frequencies far from the carrier and shows how the rate at which the spectral density falls away depends on the baseband pulse shape."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new method of speech digitization called residual encoding is introduced, and its application to the speech digitization problem is studied. The residual encoding system is a form of differential pulse code modulation which utilizes both an adaptive quantizer and an adaptive predictor. The residual encoder differs from previous systems in two ways. First, a sequential estimation method is used to continuously update the predictor coefficients, and second, the predictor coefficients are not transmitted, but are extracted from the estimate of the speech signal at both the transmitter and receiver. No form of pitch extraction is employed. The residual encoding system with a Kalman filter or a stochastic approximation algorithm for identifying the predictor coefficients has produced good quality speech at a data rate of 16 kbit/s."
"The real-time minimal-bit-error probability (RTMBEP) decoding procedure recently presented by Lee is compared with the sequential compound decoding procedure originally described by Abend and Fritchman for the detection of symbols in the presence of intersymbol interference. We compare the number of computations and the amount of storage required for each algorithm as well as show how Lee's procedure can be made more efficient."
"High-capacity pulse code modulation (PCM) transmission systems have made little impact despite the availability of suitable technology and the rapid growth of low-capacity systems. It is shown that high-capacity systems can now be introduced into toll telephony networks without short-term economic or compatibility disadvantages and with considerable long-term advantages. A 120Mbits/s coaxial cable system compatible with 12-MHz systems is described in outline."
 "Interpolative digital-to-analog (D/A) converters produce a final output via a two-step process. First, each digital input word is used to control a circuit whose output oscillates rapidly (i.e., many times faster than new digital input values are provided) between coarsely spaced analog values (i.e., many times coarser than the resolution specified by the input word). Second, the oscillating analog signal is low-pass filtered to give the final output. The oscillation pattern is chosen to produce an average value that corresponds to the fine resolution specified by the input word and to ensure that the power of the error (the difference between the oscillating signal and the desired fine resolution output) occurs predominantly out of band. By this means, high-speed operation reduces the need for many finely spaced analog signal amplitudes, a tradeoff which is especially desirable for integrated circuit implementation. In this paper, the basic operation of interpolative D/A converters is described. Three alternative means of generating patterns are compared with respect to circuit complexity, and amount of baseband distortion introduced. The relative insensitivity of these converters to circuit value variations is emphasized. Applications of the interpolative technique to decoding digital words in both linear and piecewise linearly companded formats are given."
"This concise paper describes a new technique for upper bounding the performance of coherent binary phase-shift keyed (PSK) systems which derive a phase reference using one-shot maximum likelihood phase estimates. By performance, we mean any positive monotonically increasing function of phase error, such as error probability or power loss. A tight upper bound to the phase error cumulative distribution is shown to consist of the concave support to a previously derived Chernov bound. Performance measures appropriate for binary PSK systems are listed and evaluated with the new bound."
"The paper treats linear and nonlinear methods that refine the delta modulation process. These methods improve the quality of the decoded signal at a given transmission rate. Two linear processes are analyzed. The first one matches the source signal to the coder for minimum weighted noise in the decoded signal. The second one influences the signal which is fed to the comparator; it shapes the spectrum of the quantization noise desirably. Two nonlinear methods used in the delta modulation process are discussed. The first achieves a best possible prediction of the future signal from past binary decisions and thus a reduction of the error signal. The methods of the second type make the coder adaptive to variations in the power level of the source signal. This results in a large dynamic range of the coding system. A comparison of the various methods is made and a coding system for speech signals, based on a suitable combination of these methods, is described."
"Effects of clock drift on the performance of a discretetime control system for synchronizing all the clocks in a digital communications network are shown by a detailed analysis of the dynamic behavior of the simple case of a two-node network. With a unidirectional frequency drift of one or both oscillators, it is shown that the buffer stores eventually overflow. A more general linear control scheme is also discussed."
"A concentration network is a contact switching network that provides a number of potential users (connected to its inputs) with access to a smaller number of equivalent resources (connected to its outputs). Its basic property is that any sufficiently small subset of the inputs can be simultaneously connected by disjoint paths to distinct outputs, although the particular outputs to which they are to be connected cannot, in general, be specified arbitrarily. We show that a strictly nonblocking concentration network must have at least3n \\log_{3} n - O(n)contacts wherenis the number of connections to be established simultaneously."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of designing a minimum-cost network of acceptable performance that connects several remote terminals to a central processor using multidrop lines. It is assumed that the message generation rate at each of the terminals is known and that the communication lines of the network have the same capacity. A simple model of the network is used to derive performance constraints for the design procedure. A new heuristic design procedure is proposed. This procedure is compared to other heuristic methods and is found superior in some cases. An improved version of the branch-and-bound (BB) algorithm of Chandy and Russell is developed and tested."
"The problem of designing minimum-cost multidrop lines which connect remote terminals to a concentrator or a central data-processing computer is studied. In some cases, optimal solutions can be obtained by using either linear integer programming or a branch-bound method. These approaches are not practical, since they lack flexibility and require an enormous amount of computer time for most practical problems. As a consequence, heuristic algorithms have been developed by various authors. In this paper, we point out that all of these algorithms fall into the class of minimum spanning tree (MST) problems, constrained by traffic or response time requirements. The difference between them is mainly the sequential order with which a branch or a line is selected into the tree. Without the constraints, all algorithms converge to a MST. With the constraints, they form different subtrees. Most of the algorithms can be unified into a modified Kruskal's MST algorithm. In the modified algorithm, a weight is associated with each terminal. Let wibe the weight associated with terminali, andd_{i}{j}be the cost for the line directed from terminalito terminalj. When the algorithm fetches the cost for the line, it replaces it withd_{i}{j} - w_{i}. In some cases, wi's need to be readjusted in the middle of the algorithm. The difference between all existing heuristic algorithms is in the way wi's are defined. If wiis zero for alli, the algorithm reduces to the unmodified Kruskal's algorithm; if wiis set to zero whenever a line incident to terminaliis selected as a tree branch, the algorithm reduces to Prim's MST algorithm. An extension of the algorithm to the solution of an associated problem of partitioning the terminals with respect to a predetermined set of concentrators, multiplexers, terminal interface processors, or central computers is also derived. The efficiency of an algorithm depends greatly on how it is implemented. The computational complexity of the unified algorithm is in the order ofN^{2} log Nfor the most general case, whereNis the number of terminals. By using good heuristics, it reduces toK_{1}N log N + K_{2}N, where K1and K2are constants, for many practical applications. The algorithm has been applied to large networks with over 1000 terminals, yielding excellent results and using only 15 seconds of computer time on a CDC 6600 computer. Designs obtained by using different wi's are compared."
"Expressions are obtained for the probability of error of a binary intensity-modulated direct-detection optical communication system consisting of an ideal photodetector followed by a nonideal photoelectron counter, in this case anRClow-pass filter. Calculation of probability of error requires the determination of the output statistics of the nonideal counter. Numerical techniques are used to evaluate the expression for probability of error and optimum thresholds as a function of signal level. The optimum filter bandwidth required to simulate an ideal counter is also evaluated numerically. Results indicate that, for the particular case considered, the nonideal receiver requires an additional 1 dB of signal power to achieve performance equivalent to the ideal receiver."
"Integrating two different message switching systems into one with the resultant integrated system having the combined channel capacity, need not necessarily result in improved performance. This segregated versus integrated system question has been adequately answered in a recent communication for the specific case when the message arrivals are Poisson processes and the message lengths for the two systems are (separately) exponentially distributed. While the Poisson assumption is probably adequate for message arrivals, recent investigations indicate that in computer communications traffic, a better approximation of the message lengths is provided by the geometric distribution. This paper presents a new algorithm which establishes the relative superiority of the segregated or the integrated system for the geometrically distributed message lengths. In order to make an equitable comparison, the average delay per message for the segregated systems is computed after making an optimum reallocation of the total available channel capacity. This is done by numerically solving a sixth-order equation. The first and second moments of the combined traffic, which need not necessarily have a geometrical distribution, are then computed. Using these statistics and the combined channel capacity, the average delay per message for the integrated system is obtained. A comparison between the performances of the segregated and the integrated systems is then effected. For situations where the segregated system might be worse than the integrated system, a finite upper bound on the ratio (average delay per message for the segregated system/average delay per message for the integrated system) exists and has been obtained. This limit is independent of the exponential or the geometric nature of the message lengths and has been established for an arbitrary number of message classes. It is also shown that for the reverse situation where the integrated system is inferior, the ratio (average delay per message for the integrated system/average delay per message for the segregated system) could be arbitrarily large. It is claimed that this knowledge imparts a useful input to the computer communication system designer in favor of the segregated system where there is relatively low confidence in the available traffic characteristics."
"Methods that increase the speed of digital detection comparators can also produce hysteresis, wherein the effective threshold in a given signaling interval is influenced by the previous output. If the comparator is fed by a peak-limited IF detector output followed by a detection filter with unity dc gain, the hysteresis can be a significant fraction of the peak comparator input. This concise paper derives the detection filter impulse response for which the resulting eye-opening-to-rms-noise ratio is maximized. The impulse response is taken to be either unconstrained in time or confined to a signaling interval (as in filter-and-dump detection). The results for each case are applied to 2- and 4-level coherent phase shift keying (CPSK). Expressions are obtained for the maximized eye-opening-to-rms-noise ratio as a function of comparator hysteresis and phase modulation pulse shape. These expressions are normalized to represent the excess in required power above the theoretical minimum, and graphical results are given. They show the suboptimality of filter-and-dump detection when hysteresis is high, the insensitivity of performance to hysteresis when unconstrained optimal filters are used, and the relative effects of phase modulation pulse shape on required power."
"An equation is found for the steady-state probability density function of the modulo-2π-reduced phase error of a secondorder phase-locked loop (PLL) with a proportional-proportional-plus-integral control type filter. The equation involves a certain conditional expectation which has been evaluated in an approximate way following the same approach used by previous authors in the case of sole Gaussian noise. With this approximation the equation becomes of the same type as that pertinent to a first-order system and therefore it can be solved with a method described by Ohlson in [3]. Theoretical results obtained in this way are complemented by experimental observations gathered by simulating the PPL on a digital computer."
"This concise paper describes a single channel audio coder suitable for use in Picturephone audio transmission. Companding is carried out digitally by sequential elimination of levels from the linear scheme with equally spaced quantizing levels. The basic technique, called level elimination encoding is presented and analyzed. Then a level-at-a-time coder whose quantizer consists of a linear segment followed by a level elimination segment is presented and analyzed. This two-segment coder is simulated and compared with the\\mu = 255logarithmic coder. Finally system implementation is presented and discussed with respect to the required logic speed."
"The distribution function of the probability of error in the presence of Rayleigh fading and Gaussian noise is determined for the basic binary modulation schemes of coherent frequencyshift keying (CFSK), noncoherent frequency-shift keying (NCFSK), differential phase-shift keying (DPSK), and coherent phase-shift keying (CPSK). General expressions for the distribution function of error probability are also derived when linear maximal-ratio diversity combining is employed. Results are given for various values of average error probability and various orders of diversity."
"This paper is a sequel to previous papers which considered the characteristics of a proposed synchronization control system for an integrated telephone network. In those papers, delay of the paths of each junction, one for transmission and the other for control signal, were assumed to have the same value. Though the analysis produced exact expressions for the static and dynamic characteristics of the control system, this assumption is not likely to be found realistic, in many cases. The present work extends that condition into a case where the above-mentioned delays of the paths are not equal. The conclusion is reached that the stability limit of the network is chiefly defined by the path that has the shorter delay. The stability of a synchronization control system in sampled-data control mode is also discussed. It was clarified that the reduction of the sampling rate results in higher stability of the network."
"When constant-amplitude signals and noise constitute the input to a bandpass device exhibiting a nonlinear input-output power characteristic and AM/PM conversion, the relative signal levels may change and intermodulation (IM) products are produced. A new and totally general method of evaluating the complex Fourier coefficient of any desired output component is presented. The analysis is based on repeated extraction using expected values of output signals dependent on one or more of the input signals, and makes use of joint envelope-phase probability distributions of the input conditioned on given signal phases. Several analytical examples demonstrating the application of the method and its advantages are discussed. Numerical results are presented for 2, 4, and 100 equal carriers into several types of soft limiters with quadratic AM/PM conversion."
"Simple methods that compensate for low- and highfrequency delay distortions, which are the predominant distortions in a baseband hybrid digital transmision line, have been developed. Compensation for low frequency distortion is optimized by a rational minimum-phase function. Compensation for high-frequency distortion is attained by a combination of an optimum cutoff shape and an all-pass network. A local minimum problem in the optimization of the all-pass network is eliminated by a procedure that provides appropriate initial conditions. Combined realization of both low- and high-frequency delay compensation by a slightly active network results in very simple circuitry. The efficiency of this simple compensator is confirmed experimentally in a subline with 15 analog repeaters. In this experimental system, two subpredominant distortions, nonlinear distortion and equalization error, were experienced. Compensation for these distortions is also studied by the method reported in the literature and by a simple adaptive equalizer, respectively. Based on the results obtained above, the feasibility of a baseband hybrid digital transmission system is discussed. The simple compensator mentioned above will be very useful in realizing an economical hybrid digital transmission system with the help of the simple adaptive equalizer. A system that utilizes alternate mark inversion (AMI) pulse train seems to be feasible without the help of the adaptive equalizer."
"The analysis of a distributed loop switching system with multirank buffers is based on the Markov process. The mergeability of the process is proved for a system of single-rank buffers, and generalized to systems of multirank buffers. The results for single-rank buffers are found to be in agreement with already established results. The solution for double-rank buffers, the only multirank buffer system studied in detail, is compared to the results obtained from simulation. A complete agreement is found within 5 percent, over the full dynamic range. General and normalized curves are obtained that enable us to predict the performances of double-rank buffer systems."
"In this concise paper we have developed a new carrier recovery system for vestigial sideband amplitude modulation (VSB-AM) data sets. Neither dc restoration nor extra bandwidth is required for the proposed system. A pilot tone is transmitted at the carrier frequency and the phase jitter is derived from the quadrature chnnnel. \"Artificial\" phase jitter which is introduced by the data signal can be eliminated by properly shaping the transmitted signal. We have also shown that even in the presence of channel distortion and white Gaussian noise, the proposed system can faithfully track up to 60-Hz phase jitter."
"Modern carrier systems have evolved in which all transmission is digital and channels are obtained by time-division multiplexing. A time-division switch, which, as a consequence of this environment is very simply configured, is presented. Random access memories and shift registers are employed in a configuration which differs from the time division switch canonical form. In this switch both space and time transfers are performed simultaneously in an identical manner. The structure allows short setup time with high call setup capacity, yet the hardware implementation is simple and highly regular."
"This concise paper details the synchronization philosophy and instrumentalities adopted in The Dataroute [1], a TransCanada digital data network established in April 1973. The synchronization system discussed is a hierarchical master-slave system with a two-level hierarchy at locations physically distant from one another. A discussion of the alarm transmission in The Dataroute is also presented. Alarms in The Dataroute are displayed locally, and facilities are provided for their transmission to a regional center and a national center for real-time action as well as for management purposes, and report generation on demand."
"An analysis of the discrete-time queuing problem: binomial input, constant message length, infinite queue length, one server, is carried out. The state probabilities are calculated using the method of imbedded Markov chains, and the results are applied to the problem of determining characteristic features in the performance of a traffic concentrator. The results are compared to the direct numerical solution of the equations of state for a finite buffer queue concentrator."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A technique for producing bandpass linear amplification with nonlinear components (LINC) is described. The bandpass signal first is separated into two constant envelope component signals. All of the amplitude and phase information of the original bandpass signal is contained in phase modulation on the component signals. These constant envelope signals can be amplified or translated in frequency by amplifiers or mixers which have nonlinear input-output amplitude transfer characteristics. Passive linear combining of the amplified and/or translated component signals produces an amplified and/or translated replica of the original signal."
"A discrete buffered system with infinite buffer size, Poisson arrival process, and the output channel available only periodically according to a geometric density function is analyzed. Under the assumption that a stochastic equilibrium is reached, theZtransform of the density function of the buffer occupancy is obtained as the result of this study."
"The error probability of a narrow-band envelope detector for a binary noncoherent frequency-shift keying (FSK) system is calculated in the presence of two continuous wave (CW) tone interferers, one in each channel. The results show that for a fixed total interference power, the degradation due to equal power interferers is more severe than two interferers with different powers."
"This paper considers the use of time compression multiplexing (TCM) for telephone loop communications. The analysis treats TCM transmission degradations in general, and applies the results to telephone speech transmission. To gain an understanding of the nature of TCM degradations, transmission through a linear, time invariant network and demultiplexing is considered. The channel signals are then assumed to be wide-sense stationary random processes, and expressions for the spectral properties of the TCM distortion and interchannel crosstalk are determined. To accurately evaluate the performance of a TCM system, a practical and economical equalizer is proposed. It is designed to meet speech transmission requirements for the telephone loop plant. A worst case application is chosen to evaluate the system performance. The evaluation of the TCM transmission performance utilizes both the random signal model and a computer simulation using digitized speech. The random signal analysis shows that the spectra of the distortion and crosstalk are significant for human speech. Results of the digitized speech simulation demonstrate that the subjective effect of the signal distortion is not severe, but the crosstalk is somewhat intelligible and more severe than expected."
"In this paper the recovery of the modulation signal from filtered versions of single-sided angle modulation (SSBØM) by using a simple angle detector is investigated. A general analysis is made which suggests that for modulation signals of small amplitude and for relatively well behaved filters distortionless reception of the modulation signal is possible at the receiver if the angle detector is followed by an ideal low-pass filter. This result is proved for modulation signals which are band-limited and square-integrable functions of time, and for the pure sinusoid, when the modulated signals are ideally band limited. Of special practical and theoretical interest is the case where the ideally filtered SSBØM signal has the bandwidth saving of conventional single-sideband amplitude modulation (SSBAM). In this case a sufficient condition for distortionless reception of a signals(t)with energy Esand one-sided bandwidthWis that(2E_{s}W)^{1/2} < 0.8, the maximum amplitude of the unmodulated carrier being 1. A necessary and sufficient condition for distortionless reception of the pure sinusoids(t) = d \\cos w_{1)tis:d < 1."
"TheN-level uniform quantizer on[-c,c]plus the assignment ofy_{0}\\deg = -(a _{s}+ c)/2andy_{N+1}\\deg = (a_{s}+ c)/2to signal values falling in the saturation regions[-a_{s},- c) and (c,a_{s}], respectively, is shown to be the minimax(N + 2)-level quantizer with a nonsaturating input range[-c,c]. The performance criterion considered is the mean weighted quantization error and the input signals are only required to be amplitude bounded by\\pm a_{s}wherea_{s} > c > 0. The worst case input signal marginal probability distributions are shown to be discrete. From the derivation of this result, the minimax error can be computed. An example is given which illustrates the performance of the minimax quantizer for several input ranges against different input signal probability distributions."
"This paper deals with some important practical applications of teletraffic theory to field engineering problems. It is shown that the following tasks concerning line switching telephone networks can be mastered by means of a few handy tables: loss calculation and dimensioning of trunk groups for full or limited access; very accurate loss approximation of link systems with an arbitrary number of stages, operating as group selection or traffic concentrating arrays with point-to-group selection mode (regarding this, and also optimal link structures, wiring, etc., see [7] in this issue); dimensioning groups with limited or full access for offered peaked overflow traffic; cost minimizing partition of the traffic in local or toll networks with alternate routing to the various trunk groups; and computerized dimensioning is of course also possible."
"An analytical technique is presented here for obtaining approximate expressions for both the phase and message estimate variances for an FM demodulator. Numerical computations, for both above and below threshold operation, demonstrate the accuracy of the approximate expressions."
"The problems of how group-selection link systems should be structured, wired, and hunted to achieve optimal traffic characteristics are studied. Furthermore, a loss-and-load-equivalent mapping of large group-selection link systems to smaller ones is presented. A new approximate loss calculation method is developed. All studies were supported by extensive Monte Carlo simulations."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Hartmann [1] and Shehadeh and Chiu [2] have derived expressions for the spectrum of Manchester coded frequency-shift keyed (FSK) signals. The expressions are compared and the conditions under which they coincide are discussed."
"The average density\\lambda (t)of a Poisson process is estimated by a nonstationary shot noise processs(t). The processs(t)is generated by a time-varying system whose impulse responseh (t, \\alpha)is so determined as to minimize the mean-square (ms) estimation error. It is shown that, under realistic assumptions,h (t, \\alpha )is a truncated parabola in the variable α . The analysis is extended to two-dimensional processes. The resulting smoothing kernel is an elliptic paraboloid."
"The L5 line connecting equipment fulfills several functions, including the routing of jumbogroup signals for through, branched, or terminal connections of the message service on the line. Any combination of three jumbogroup signals may be sent along the through route, branched directly to another route, or dropped locally to a multiplex terminal. Line pilots for dynamic equalization, temperature regulation, and office synchronization, as well as tones for fault location and protection switch control, are also administered in the line connecting equipment. The multiplex equipment separates the line signal into three basic lumbogroup signals which may be connected directly to other cable or radio facilities in any combination of up to six contiguous mastergroups through the basic jumbogroup trunk bay. The basic jumbogroups may also undergo further demultiplexing locally for lower forms of circuit administration, such as basic mastergroup, supergroup, group, or even voice frequency."
 "The L5 system design characteristics and features, including the transmission plan, frequency allocation, and predicted noise, intermodulation, and crosstalk performance, are described. The effects of such factors as modulation product addition, misalignment, and mastergroup frogging on system performance are discussed. Signal-signal-to-noise optimization through transmission level shaping is described."
"The jumbogroup frequency supply provides the jumbogroup multiplex terminals with signals having the frequency accuracy(\\Delta F/F < 1/10^{8})required for frequency multiplexing 10 800 message channels. In addition to frequency precision, reliability is of utmost importance since many jumbogroup multiplex terminals are to be supplied by one jumbogroup frequency supply. Protection switching of redundant circuits and close monitoring of circuit conditions have been included in the design. Another major aspect of reliable operation is the man-machine interface, which has been engineered to minimize man-made service interruptions."
"The residual transmission deviation of the L5 repeatered line can be divided into two categories, static or time invariant and dynamic or time variant. The static deviation, which is due to design limitations and manufacturing deviations of the basic and regulating repeaters, is compensated for by manually adjustable equalizers designatedE1andE2. These equalizers are composed of 28 Bode bump networks whose gains are adjusted to minimize the total mean-squared error of the transmission channel. The residual dynamic transmission deviation, caused by temperature variations of the basic and regulating repeaters, is corrected continuously by an automatic equalizerE3. The time-varying transmission deviations are detected by four pilot tones spaced across the L5 frequency spectrum. Four electronically controlled networks in the equalizer respond to the pilots to correct the dynamic transmission deviations."
"The Jumbogroup Multiplex (JMX) translates basic jumbogroup signals to and from L5 line frequencies. Each of the three jumbogroups contains six mastergroups, any of which may be analog (600 voice channels) or digitally derived (13.29 Mb/s). In addition to frequency translation, the JMX provides regulation and equalization on a jumbogroup basis and automatic 1-for-1 protection. Terminal noise performance is better than 13 dBrncO, and equal level coupling loss (crosstalk loss) exceeds 90 dB."
"Interchannel interference in multiplexing systems using Walsh-function carriers is considered. In such systems excessive sequency bandwidth of input signals or synchronization errors destroy orthogonality between received signals and demodulating functions, causing crosstalk. The former cause is studied using Yuen's integration-by-parts method, while for the latter correlation of Walsh functions is derived. For both causes crosstalk is small ff a \"weighted distance\" between the indices of the two channels is large."
"Power loss at voice frequencies in two-wire telephone lines is presently overcome by employing electronic repeaters which produce bidirectional amplification without undue interaction between the outgoing and incoming paths. This isolation between the directional gain elements is achieved by employing balanced transformer windings or negative impedance transformations. Both methods rely heavily on complex line matching circuits to minimize the chance of instability or \"singing.\" This paper describes a simple repeater that achieves bidirectional amplification while using conventional 1:1 line transformers. The obtainable return loss against fixed terminal impedances is only limited by the quality of these transformers. The new device reproduces the action of a hybrid transformer using very simple electronic circuitry and has a potentially wide application both in two-wire systems and in two to four wire conversions."
"Two major characteristics of the coaxial cable that are of paramount importance in the design of coaxial line repeaters are the nominal cable loss and the variation in the cable loss due to seasonal variations in cable temperature. As a result, there are two types of line repeaters used to equalize for the cable loss characteristics. One is a low-noise ultralinear fixed-gain amplifier. It is designated the basic repeater and is used to equalize for the nominal loss of the coaxial cable. The second type, called the regulating repeater, includes a basic repeater plus additional circuitry which automatically corrects for dynamic variations in cable loss due to temperature. Some of the important design techniques that are used to achieve these low-noise ultralinear repeaters are described. In addition, an analysis of the steady-state response of a tandem string of regulating repeaters is included."
"A new 1-for-10 line protection switching system called LPSS-3 has been developed for the L5 coaxial system. Reliability and economic considerations dictate maximum switching spans of 150 mi. Control is primarily by integrated-circuit logic. The line switches use microwave switching diodes to achieve the required pass, modulation, and isolation characteristics. Switching is initiated when temperature pilot levels deviate ± 5 dB from nominal or when the total system energy increases 9 dB above nominal (system overload is imminent). For release, the pilot must be within ± 2 dB of nominal and total energy must be less than +5 dB above nominal. Interstation signaling is accomplished by pulse code modulating complementary channels. Checking complements and parity lends immunity to error. Retransmission of failed codes is automatic. Complete manual control, both local and via telemetry, is provided."
"Repeatered line design for long-haul coaxial systems centers about the equalization of the 4000-mi (6400-km) cable loss. In the L5 system, which provides 10 800 toll grade quality message channels on a pair of 0.375-in (9.5-mm) coaxials, this loss is over 120 000 dB at the highest message frequencies and is compensated with a variety of fixed and adjustable equalizers distributed along the coaxial line. This equalization must be achieved while at the same time providing an adequate signal-to-noise ratio. The significant properties of the coaxial medium and how they affect the \"hierarchy\" of equalizers traditionally found in long-haul coaxial systems are described. The manner in which the various levels of equalization relate to each other and to the fundamental transmission phenomena within the system is considered at length. The paper begins with a discussion of the evolution of highcapacity systems and the particular role that the L5 system is expected to play in future long-haul system planning."
"Signal sets employing amplitude and phase keying (APK) with large alphabets conserve bandwidth and do not require as high a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) as phase-shift keying (PSK). Twenty-nine empirically generated APK sets withM-ary alphabet sizes from 4 to 128 are investigated to determine optimum designs. Selected sets are compared on the basis of a symbol-error-probability bound for both average and peak SNR. Results are presented in the form of symbol error curves. The degradation caused by nonlinearities in a typical TWT amplifier is examined. The effects of AM-AM and AM-PM distortion on APK are presented as a function of power backoff for single-carrier operation (when APK is at the greatest disadvantage compared with PSK). Modem implementation methods, including carrier phase reconstruction techniques, are discussed for basic APK designs."
"Cable pairs entering power stations may be subjected to ground potential rise (GPR) and/or induction of several thousand volts during power system faults. A cable protection system designed to give a high degree of reliability is described, and the results of staged fault and laboratory tests are discussed. An analysis of neutralizing transformer transient performance shows how the transformer's behavior during fault conditions is determined by its volt-time capability."
"The time information for source-encoded, or compressed, sampled time functions is treated as a two-symbol source, the symbols corresponding to redundant and nonredundant samples. The entropy of this source for both the statistically independent symbol model and the Markov model is used as a reference for the comparison of time codes. Time encoding schemes are classified into two categories: total information codes and partial information codes. The following codes are compared on the basis of the number of timing bits per symbol as a function of the compression ratio: binary sequence code, Lynch-Davisson code, time-of-nonredundant-sample code, cluster code, fixed-length binary run-length code, Huffman code, and the binary-nonconsective-one code."
"The present paper considers discrete time analyses of firstand second-order digital phase lock loops. These loops are characterized by the fact that they track the zero crossings of the incoming signal; consequently, the sampling intervals are nonuniform. The firstorder loop is analyzed for phase step and frequency step inputs; mean time to skip cycle is also considered. For phase step input, approximate expressions are obtained for the steady-state phase error probability density and phase error variance, the second of which leads directly to a theoretical prediction of threshold. The second-order loop is analyzed for frequency step input. Approximate expressions for the steady-state phase error probability density, phase error variance, and a theoretical prediction of threshold are obtained. The analyses are confirmed by numerical results and simulation."
"A recursive procedure is derived for decoding of rateR = 1/nbinary convolutional codes which minimizes the probability of the individual decoding decisions for each information bit, subject to the constraint that the decoding delay be limited to Δ branches. This new decoding algorithm is similar to, but somewhat more complex than, the Viterbi decoding algorithm. A \"real-time,\" i.e., fixed decoding delay, version of the Viterbi algorithm is also developed and used for comparison to the new algorithm on simulated channels. It is shown that the new algorithm offers advantages over Viterbi decoding in soft-decision applications, such as in the inner coding system for concatenated coding."
"A carrier regeneration loop which generates highly coherent quadrature reference signals for quadrature amplitude-shift keying (QASK) demodulation is presented. The loop employs the principle of decision feedback and has a structure analogous to a decision feedback loop for quadriphase signals suggested earlier in the literature. The error probabihty performance of QASK is computed in the presence of the noisy carrier reference signals provided by the above loop. It is demonstrated that when the ratio of data rate to loop bandwidth is 50 or greater, then for all practical purposes, ideal QASK error probability performance is achieved."
"The correlation of the transfer function taken simultaneously at two different frequencies is computed for a random surfacescatter channel. The analysis is limited to transmission in the specular direction but uses a Fresnel-corrected model. It is therefore applicable to channels excited by a wide beam transmitter. Using this model it is possible to explain why in certain circumstances channel activity at two closely spaced frequencies is uncorrelated while in other cases correlation may be observed at widely spaced frequencies. Some guidelines for predicting various modes of channel behavior are derived. The Fresnel-corrected model is also used to explore the duration of the reverberant impulse response of the channel. The results are presented in a broad-band Sonar context but they can easily be generalized. Comparisons with the Fraunhofer limit are made in order to establish what advantages are offered by the Fresnel model."
"In PCM transmission systems, ensuring repeater timing and regenerative capabilities requires monitored enforcement of the ones density of the line waveform. One possible corrective monitor action is to pre-empt information bits and insert ones when necessary, and thus introduce errors into the pulse stream. The analysis of the resultant error rates for classes of digital and analog implementations of a PCM monitor is accomplished via theoretical consideration of certain stationary Markov processes."
"In multipath environments in which there is a compact concentration of the values of time-delay-difference (TDD) between signals arriving over each of the indirect paths and the direct path, it is possible, by suitably choosing frequency differences, to design a frequency diversity system in which the diversity branches are negatively correlated. This results in a reduced probability of simultaneous deep fades on all branches over that obtained with branches designed to be independent. In the first part of the paper the magnitude of the negative correlation is shown to depend on the number of indirect reflectors contributing to the total indirect signal and that it is maximum when the indirect signal arises from a single reflector. Also shown is how the magnitude of the negative correlation can be maximized using the probability density function of the TDD to establish the frequency assignment. This is a precursor to the second part of the paper in which an investigation of the improvement of the error probability by a judicious choice of frequency differences is reported. The error probability as a function of frequency differences is found for the specific case of noncoherent frequency-shift keying (FSK) in a specular multipath channel using square-law combining. A general result forMth order diversity is obtained but a detailed study is made for two and three order diversity only. Results are presented for uniformly distributed TDD's with various ranges and mean values, the parameters being suggested by the physical conditions encountered when low flying aircraft are the multipath source or are themselves trying to communicate. Results for other densities of TDD, the normal and the gamma, are cited. For the second order case, it is found that an advantageous frequency spacing can be determined in terms of the average TDD. For the third order case, two frequency differences are available as design parameters. Results are presented based on a rule for selecting frequency differences similar to that used in the second order case and substantial improvements are found. Another rule investigated that gave even better results is cited. Finally, error probability comparisons are made with systems having no multipath, nondiversity systems with multipath, and with diversity systems in multipath with independent branches. For the conditions assumed, and for reasonable levels of transmitted signal power and receiver noise, order of magnitude improvements are found to be obtained over independent branches."
"There are three types of main stations associated with the L5 system. Power feed main stations provide the dc power required by the line repeaters. Switching power feed main stations add the automatic line protection switching equipment for the L5 system. Terminal main stations provide the equipment for multiplex and related functions. This equipment includes the jumbogroup multiplex (JMX), which translates arrays of six analog or digitally derived mastergroup signals to and from line frequency; the L5 line bay, which provides the interface between the L5 line and the terminal equipment, including branching and blocking circuitry; the jumbogroup frequency supply, which provides highly stable signals from which JMX carriers are derived; the basic jumbogroup trunk bay, which processes the JMX baseband signal; and the transmission surveillance system which, in conjunction with the E2 status reporting and control system, allows the remote monitoring and trouble shooting of L5 line and main station equipment. L5 is a hardened system with main stations housed in self-contained, underground buildings. These buildings provide life support and auxiliary power equipment which allow main stations to operate under emergency status for as long as several weeks."
"In Parts I and II of this paper a generalized analytical queueing methodology for studying the performance of radio nets was presented and the methodology was applied to a number of net systems. In this part the methodology is refined and its assumptions and definitions are validated. It is important to emphasize that several of the refinements introduced here alter the methodology for multiplefrequency systems that was introduced in Part I; specifically, the distribution of queued messages among the stations and the state transition probabilities are refined. In addition, the grade of service is redefined, the waiting time distribution is introduced, the methodology is extended to use Erlangian statistics, and the ranges of the parametersS, \\rho_{t}(i), and ρ are specified for which the model is applicable. Also, the model's performance predictions are validated by comparison with a computer simulation."
"Continuous verification of the transmission integrity of a complex broadband network such as the L5 coaxial system requires many repetitive measurements at different locations and considerable processing of the measured data. To minimize the cost and time for these maintenance operations and to provide the best system reliability, a centralized, automated transmission surveillance system has been developed. The measuring and control portion consists of two basic units or facilities. The transmission surveillance center (TSC), located at a large manned main station, originates automatic control operations and accumulates and processes measured data from local and remote locations. The transmission surveillance auxiliary (TSA), located at all other main stations, makes measurements as directed by a controlling TSC and sends the resulting raw data back to the TSC. Typically, a TSC will control up to ten auxiliaries. A four-wire data-transmission system transmits all remote-control commands and remotely measured data in digital form."
"Upper and lower bounds to the probability of error in a binary communication system with intersymbol interference and independent noise are computed. The symbols may be dependent or independent. The bounds are tight and practically coincide for a proper choice of certain parameters."
"Excellent reveiw papers on the state of the art of propagation through the atmosphere at laser wavelengths have been published during and prior to 1970. This concise paper gives a brief update of major developments that took place since 1970. Covered are the saturation phenomenon, heterodyne receiver performance, atmospheric turbulence model, and transmitter-aperture averaging effect."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "An analysis of the spectra of digital signals is presented that includes Lundquist's and Glance's results for PSK signals as special cases while at the same time being much simpler than previous analyses. The signal is assumed to be modulated in phase and/or amplitude by a sequence of pulses that may have different shapes for different symbols. In addition, the pulse representing a given symbol may be affected by neighboring symbols, so that intersymbol interference in the modulating process is permitted. The results, nevertheless, take a simple form, and they are applied to two binary cases."
"Evaluating the capacity of a satellite communication system requires accurate prediction of the combined effects of up and down-path fading. This correspondence derives an expression for the resultant channel fade probability distribution as a function of up- and down-path fade distributions and the satellite TW input-output (I/O) power transfer characteristic, and demonstrate that power limiting in the satellite has a substantial effect."
"A convenient method of evaluating theQfunction over the parameter space quarter plane is presented. TheQfunction is first expressed as an infinite series. TheNterm truncated seriesQ_{N}(a, b)is used to approximateQ(a, b)fora^{2} + b^{2} \\leq Rwhere the choice ofNdepends on the accuracy desired andRis determined by considerations such as computer bit capacity, computational time, and accuracy. Fora^{2} + b^{2} > R, alternate expressions are used. Whenb - a \\geq d, we approximateQby 0, and whenb - a \\leq d, we approximateQby 1. The accuracy is dependent on the choice of the constantd. In the reniainder of the quarter plane,a^{2} + b^{2} > Rand| b - a < d, and an efficient expression is used, but it is of limited accuracy (from 10-5to 10-9) near the linea = b."
"A description is given for a delta modulation system wherein the sampling interval is varied as a function of the characteristics of the signal to be coded. The system thus operates asynchronously as compared with the usual delta modulator, and permits the transmission of fewer samples during periods of small signal variation. The algorithm used for sampling interval variation is common to both transmitting and receiving ends of the system, and so signal reconstitution at the receiver is possible without the explicit transmission of interval information. Some results are presented in the form of line printer generated images."
"The 84A station carrier system was designed to have cost and performance parameters competitive with paired cable for a majority of new subscriber loops. The system design incorporates a number of unique features, not provided by previous single channel systems, which are necessary for permanent service applications. These include: bridged ringing with ring-trip during ringing, central office power for the station terminal with disconnect during off-hook, dialing, or ringing on the physical channel, and transmission suppression of ringing signals below a set threshold. This paper describes the system and discusses the electrical design and the packaging concepts. Typical performance characteristics are listed."
"We consider optimum uniform data quantization for noisy channels. We present a general formulation for natural encoding that results in simple expressions for the mean-square error. Specifically, we show that the optimum location of the center of the quantizer is at the mean of the distribution for all error rates. The optimum levels for quantization and the corresponding mean-square error are presented for Gaussian and uniform data. For the latter the width of the optimum quantizer for noisy channels is shown to be smaller than the entire range of probability distribution."
"Digital filters are commonly designed in the form of a cascade of recursive second-order sections. Filters designed this way can be realized, in hardware, by building a single second-order section and then time multiplexing it to perform all the required operations. On the other hand, adaptive filters, such as adaptive equalizers, are generally nonrecursive. In this paper, a technique is described for modifying a time-multiplexed recursive second-order section so that it can be used to realize both recursive cascade-form filters and nonrecursive adaptive filters."
"TAD is a mnemonic for threshold-activated diode or telephone access device. It was designed at Wescom for its new 501 telephone electronic private automatic branch exchange (EPABX). A single TAD is a composite p-n-p-n diode. 45 TAD's with associated exclusive path control have been integrated into a 5 × 9 monolithic crosspoint array and packaged in a 16-pin DIP. The 501 matrix is a 150 × 135 rectangular matrix comprising nine 7 × 11 in printed circuit boards with 50 DIP's per board. The significance of the TAD as a replacement for previously used crosspoint switches occurs due to its cost savings and size reduction. For a small EPABX, crosspoint minimization techniques using blocking and/or a multiple stage array are not needed, since a singlestage rectangular array is very practicable. Furthermore, the system architecture is simplified, which results in a further size and price savings for the basic system. The individual TAD is a two-port device which has common marking and transmission terminals. Insertion loss of a fired TAD is 0.1-0.2 dB when terminated in 600 Ω impedances. Voice frequency crosstalk isolation between adjacent paths exceeds 100 dB. Marking of the anode occurs by turning on a current source whose voltage changes from a quiescent 0 V to + 13 V dc while marking of the cathode occurs by activating a current sink whose terminating voltage linearly ramps from +15 V dc to +4 V dc. In a multiplestage application, definite available paths are selectable with a simple system control."
"Up till now (Chu [1], Rudin [3]), the overflow probabilities of a hold-and-forward concentrator have been determined assuming that the pooled traffic of a number of terminal users at the input of the concentrator has a completely independent interarrival statistic between the characters. A closer analysis of the data going from one user to a computer shows that the user burst segments are separated in time by the total sum of idle time, computer burst segment time, and think time. Therefore, the interarrival statistic between two user burst segments cannot be of the negative exponential type. Starting from a more realistic interarrival statistic, it then follows that the interarrivals for the pooled user traffic are dependent. With this new model, the overflow probabilities have been determined as a function of the number of user terminals, traffic intensity, buffer capacity, and user terminal statistics."
"This paper examines the transmission of binary data signals over channels which contain quadratic nonlinearities and additive Gaussian noise. We consider the case where the channel is nonlinear with memory and where the signal is passed through an input receiver filter and sampled once every signaling interval. The samples are represented by a discrete Volterra series and a special case where the received sample contains a single quadratic distortion term is examined. The optimum (maximum-likelihood) receiver (processor) is derived and upper and lower performance bounds obtained. The performance of a practical, suboptimum receiver is examined by means of computer simulation and is shown to be very close to the lower bound of the optimum receiver. Next we examine the case where the received sample contains two quadratic distortion terms. Again, upper and lower performance bounds are obtained. The performance of a suboptimum receiver which uses nonlinear decision feedback is evaluated by computer simulation. Its performance is shown to be superior to an optimum linear receiver."
"In this correspondence, the problem of lower bounds on mean-square error in parameter estimation is considered. Lower bounds on mean-square error can be used, for instance, to bound the performances, namely the attainable output signal-to-noise ratio, of pulse modulation transmission systems, such as pulse-position modulation (PPM) or pulse-frequency modulation (PFM). The tightest lower bounds to mean-square error previously known are the Ziv-Zakai bounds; the analysis carried out in this paper, which is based on an inequality first obtained by Kotel'nikov, leads to lower bounds tighter than previously known bounds."
 "High quality analog-to-digital conversions are obtained using simple and inexpensive circuits that require no high-precision components. Samples of the analog signal are cycled rapidly through a coarse quantizer while the roundoff error is fed back and subtracted from the input. By means of this feedback, the coarse quantizations are caused to oscillate between levels, keeping their running average representative of the input. A binary coding of the quantized values, summed over Nyquist intervals, provides a high resolution PCM output. The precision is determined by a product of the cycle rate and the spacing of the coarse quantization levels. The system is surprisingly tolerant of inaccuracies in gains and threshold settings; indeed, it has many of the desirable properties of classical feedback servomechanisms. An 8-bit limit cycling converter intended for 1-MHz signal bandwidths has been fabricated of standard components that, in total, cost less than $150."
"The intermodulation analysis presented in this paper is based on the important observation that any output component of a memoryless nonlinear device can be expressed as an integral of the product of two functions, one being the single carrier amplitude characteristic of the nonlinear device and the other being a function of the statistical parameters of the input signal. The analysis can also be extended to nonlinear devices with AM-PM conversion by expressing the amplitude characteristic as a complex function. The signal-dependent function is given analytically for two simple but important types of signals, for two sinusoidal carriers of equal level, and for Gaussian noise, and it is demonstrated that good agreement has been obtained when the method has been applied to microwave devices like high powerX-band klystrons and traveling wave tubes. It is also shown that the method is convenient for analysis of intermodulation in cascaded nonlinear elements for which the individual single carrier amplitude characteristics are known."
"This paper is an analytical study to determine the performance of single-integration delta-modulation(\\DeltaM)encoders with inputs which are various voice-band data signals. Signal-to-quantizing noise ratiosS/Nare calculated for\\DeltaMbit rates from 16 to 96 K bits/s. The input data signals studied are phase modulation at 1200 and 2400 bits/s, partial response at 4800 and 9600 bits/s, and single sideband at 4800 bits/s. Predictions of the performance of these modems, when transmitted over the\\DeltaMsystems, are based on the calculatedS/Nratios."
"The lane ambiguity problem prevents the utilization of the Omega system for many applications such as locating buoys and balloons. The method of multiple lines of position introduced herein uses signals from four or more Omega stations for ambiguity resolution. The coordinates of the candidate points are determined first through the use of the Newton iterative procedure. Subsequently, a likelihood function is generated for each point, and the ambiguity is resolved by selecting the most likely point. The method was tested through simulation."
"It is shown in this paper that bit-error probabilities for some typical digital communication systems can be accurately and efficiently evaluated using the elementary trapezoidal integration rule. Examples involving intersymbol interference and a Rayleigh fading channel are worked."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A practical extremely low frequency (ELF) horizontal antenna requires a site of low effective conductivity. This paper describes the application of certain dc resistivity sounding methods in rapidly evaluating potentially useful areas within geologically interesting regions, and in determining both basement anisotropy and the direction of the principal (maximum) resistivity axis. Apparent resistivity data from dc array expansion is interpreted with a horizontal layered earth model using a \"generalized inverse\" method of fit. With layered models over principal axes the effective conductivity to be experienced with a horizontal wire antenna of arbitrary orientation is readily calculated. Salient results for three geographical regions are presented."
"Conductivity measurements using the magnetotelluric resistivity method can be used to survey a proposed Sanguine transmitter site for its suitability, and to predict the radiation pattern of the transmitting antenna. The magnetotelluric resistivity method, unlike other conductivity measuring techniques, can account for the anisotropic behavior of the earth, and can obtain measurements rapidly as compared with other techniques."
"The surface impedance concept is used to examine the effect of ground anisotropy on the radiated field and power dissipation of a horizontal ELF transmitting array. The principal result, for a simple homogeneous but anisotropic ground, is that even though the ground skews the antenna pattern, any attempt to reorient the array to steer the pattern peak towards the receiver incurs an increase in power dissipation. In fact, the power dissipation is minimized by steering the pattern peak even further away from the receiver."
"The excitation of extremely low frequency (ELF) waves by a horizontal electric dipole in the earth-ionosphere waveguide can be obtained by a heuristic approach based upon the observation of a relationship between a horizontal electric dipole and a horizontal magnetic dipole. Then multiple imaging takes into account the effect of the ionosphere. This approximate derivation preserves the physical picture which is obscured by complex mathematics in rigorous analysis."
"The effective conductivity of a potential antenna site is a measure of the field strength that an antenna built on the site would radiate. Only in special cases, however, is this same measure suitable for characterizing the power that the antenna would dissipate. It is shown that in the case of a current-sheet antenna built on a horizontally stratified half-space, a measure that characterizes both the radiation and dissipation properties of the site is the complex surface impedance. This same measure remains substantially valid for an antenna composed of separate cables and for inhomogeneous half-spaces of not too great lateral variation. The most reliable methods of measuring the surface impedance are theE/HandH/Imethods, provided both include the measurement of the phase of the ratio."
"Early extremely low-frequency (ELF) research and the implementation of Project Sanguine to meet the Navy's need for secure transmission to submerged fleet ballistic missile (FBM) submarines are outlined. The 1963 \"Intensive Test,\" which proved the feasibility of ELF reception by a submarine at operational depths, is highlighted."
"The Project Sanguine system is the result of many years of research and analysis into radiating system configurations. The paper describes the early portions of this search, the recognition of equivalences among several of the candidate systems, the conduct of an early transmission experiment, and the initial efforts at system optimization and choice of the radiating system configuration. The early research and tests provided confirmation of the theory that a vertically polarizedE-field propagates through the earth ionosphere cavity at ELF with a slight forward tilt which allows it to enter the sea water and then penetrate to considerable depths. It also verified the behavior of the earth return antenna element through the operation of an experimental system. In addition, a system optimization program was developed to allow the cost of achieving various levels of system performance to be assessed."
"The advantages of utilizing the extremely low frequency (ELF) band for communications to submarines are principally the low attenuation rate of ELF signals in seawater and the low attenuation rate in the earth-ionospheric waveguide. ELF transmitters, however, require high input power. Efficient signaling schemes and sophisticated receiver designs help minimize the required transmitter power and hence system cost. One such signaling schemeconvolutional encoding and binary antipodal modulation-and an experimental receiver were successfully field tested and are described. Tests included real-time reception of messages aboard a submerged submarine in the Atlantic Ocean. It is concluded that the receiver, which included adaptive nonlinear noise processing, notch filtering, ocean channel compensation, and sequential decoding makes extremely efficient usage of available signal strength and demonstrates the technical feasibility of communication in the ELF band."
"Work is being conducted at the Naval Underwater Systems Center in the design and development of low-noise,H-field antennas for incorporation in submarine antenna systems consisting of towed, horizontal, electric dipoleE-field antennas. Utilization ofE-field andH-field antennas in a common cable will permit omnidirectional extremely low frequency (ELF) reception by a submarine. This paper discusses various experiments that have been conducted to determine the effects of magnetic core geometry onH-field antenna SNR for the case where stress-induced core noise is the dominant antenna noise. A substantial improvement in the SNR is realized by cold-working the antenna core into a helically wrapped structure. The mechanical strain relief, or insensitivity to tensional stresses achieved, gives the helical structure a definite advantage over the axial design."
"Statistics of narrow-band extremely low frequency (ELF) noise for use in Sanguine systems analysis were obtained at locations in Malta and Guam. The results of four seasons of ELF atmospheric noise measurements are discussed. In particular the contributions of local thunderstorms to high noise levels, i.e., the 1 percent exceedance levels, are shown. Spectra of the 1 percent and 50 percent exceedance levels of the magnetic-field intensity component, obtained from the sensor aligned for maximum reception from northern Wisconsin are plotted. At both locations, the noise levels were highest during the fall season. The diurnal variation of the median noise levels correlated with worldwide thunderstorm activity, while the diurnal variation of the mean square levels correlated with local thunderstorm activity. When few local thunderstorms occur during a season, the cumulative distributions of the 250 s samples for the magnetic-field intensity can be approximated by a log-normal distribution almost to the 1 percent exceedance level."
"An ELF (extremely low frequency) communication system has been proposed for communication from land to submerged submarines. We present an analytical study of conceptual feasibility of such a system and discuss some of its properties. We find no fundamental technical reason why such a system is infeasible. The present work yields the general structure of the receiver, and estimates for the important parameters of such a system. Nonlinear processing ahead of the FSK (frequency-shift keying) receiver in the submarine appears essential. Such processing greatly reduces the effects of atmospheric noise due to nearby lightning storms, and hence, makes reliable operation possible at much smaller transmitter power."
"The ferromagnetic-core type of solenoid that is used as a trailed antenna for communications reception by submarines has not demonstrated adquate sensitivity to satisfy the performance requirements for deeply submerged submarines receiving extremely low frequency (ELF) transmissions from the planned Sanguine communications system. It is possible, however, that a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) can be adapted to this role successfully and can permit all requirements of platform depth, speed, and maneuverability to be met. The present status of SQUID's is described, and some laboratory measurements that prove the potential of these devices for the ELF communications reception capability are presented. The engineering development that must be pursued in the areas of 1) sensor and electronics dynamic range, 2) sensor orthogonality, and 3) refrigeration systems to make SQUID ELF sensors available as operational receiving antennas is also discussed."
"The pressure fluctuations in the turbulent boundary layer surrounding the towed antenna cable cause it to vibrate in the geomagnetic field and thereby generate noise. This noise mechanism is the dominant one in current long antennas. Its effect can be reduced only by increasing antenna diameter and length. Tension, stiffness, and damping have no effect. Noise voltage spectra derived from pressure fluctuation data show striking agreement with those measured."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe methods of studying the propagation of radio waves over the earth's surface in the extremely low frequency (ELF) frequency band (3 Hz-3 kHz) using natural (as distinct from \"man-made\") sources of radiation. Attention is focused on the characteristics of the radio wave field and on methods of analysis of acquired data in order to obtain information on propagation parameters of interest in Project Sanguine. Wave impedance measurements are identified as being of particular importance in these investigations."
"This paper describes the design of a candidate noise processor for the Sanguine receiver based on communication theory considerations and detailed experiments using wide-band recordings of extremely low-frequency (ELF) (3-300 Hz) atmospheric noise. This processor consists of the following elements: 1) a compensating (or whitening) filter; 2) nonlinear notch filtering at frequencies of manmade interference; 3) a post-notch filter nonlinearity; and 4) a phase coherent linear matched filter. Due to the impulsive non-Gaussian nature of the noise, nonlinear processing with a bandwidth considerably greater than the 40-80-Hz signal bandwidth is significantly better than a linear receiver (consisting only of a matched filter and appropriate whitening filters). Simulations using noise recordings from a number of widely separated locations in the world have shown improvements of 7 dB to 20 dB at times of high ELF atmospheric noise levels at the receiver input."
"An extremely low frequency (ELF) communication system for military purposes needs specialized engineering techniques, in particular signal bandwidth spreading in order to protect against enemy electronic countermeasures (ECM). Qualitative discussion is presented of the processing which the system must have to make jamming difficult, with qualitative discussion of predictive jamming, repeat-back jamming, and high power brute force jamming by adapting electric power systems."
"The degradation in correlation receiver performance due to signal distortion at the transmitting antenna is computed as a function of processing delay for simple but representative models of the Sanguine antenna and input waveforms. The optimum delay and minimum distortion loss are given parametrically in terms of the ratio of the 3 dB bandwidth of the signal process to that of the antenna. For the more realistic model considered the degradation can be reduced significantly to just a fraction of a dB by optimizing the receiver delay."
"Extremely low frequency (ELF) electromagnetic wave propagation was investigated by measuring the amplitude of a CW signal transmitted from the Sanguine site in North Carolina to receiving sites located in New York State, Labrador, and Iceland. The attenuation factor α and the reciprocal of the excitation factorh_{i} (\\sigma_{e}S_{0})^{1/2}were determined. Data for daytime, nighttime, and sunrise transition paths were obtained. The attenuation factors obtained for 78 and 156 Hz are compared with the value of α obtained from measurements of atmospherics. The attenuation values at 78 Hz of 1.29 and 1.01 dB/1000 km, and a value of 0.75 dB/1000 km at 45 Hz, obtained by interpolation of results of this and other experiments, were used in Sanguine systems analysis."
"A solution is obtained to the problem of finding the current distribution in a buried linear antenna which minimizes the dissipated power while maintaining the required radiated field. An example shows that such distribution saves about 30 percent on power dissipation compared to an antenna of the same total length having simple bared-end grounding terminations. A practical method using current transformers is proposed for controlling the current distribution. A grounding system using this method has the property that it does not short out adjacent active antenna cables when it is in standby mode."
"Propagation theory along the lines of Budden's terrestrial waveguide formalism is reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on its application to the lower extremely low frequency (ELF) range for which a number of calculations have been made to demonstrate the relationship between propagation parameters and the physical constants of the ionosphere. Calculations performed with diffuse anisotropic ionospheres yield reasonable agreement with ELF test results."
"An experimental measurement program has been conducted to determine propagation parameters in the 40-50 and 70-80 Hz ranges. These measurements have utilized a transmitter in Wisconsin radiating a sinusoidal signal at radiated power levels of 0.5 W at 45 Hz and 1 W at 75 Hz. Sites have been located at Nova Scotia, California, Utah, Hawaii, Norway, Greenland, Greece, and Saipan. Using sites on the same great circle path as the transmitter, it has been possible to estimate average attenuation rates and excitation factors with high accuracy subject to the constraints discussed in the paper. Both daytime and nighttime attenuation rates and excitation factors are discussed."
"For the past 3 years, we have participated in various extremely low frequency (ELF) propagation tests. During these tests, receiving sites were located in Connecticut, North Carolina, Maine, Utah, Nova Scotia, California, Greenland, the Virgin Islands, Alaska, Norway, Hawaii, Greece, and Saipan. Measurements have also been taken sporadically in Connecticut since June 1970. At each location, the horizontal magnetic field strengths were measured at a band of frequencies centered at 45 Hz and 75 Hz in order to determine the average attenuation rates and relative excitation factors for daytime and nighttime propagation conditions. The U.S. Navy ELF Wisconsin Test Facility was the transmission source. The principal results obtained from these measurements were 1) the daytime attenuation rate is usually higher than the nighttime attenuation rate at both 45 and 75 Hz; 2) the relative excitation factors are quite different for daytime and nighttime propagation conditions; 3) nighttime propagation is more variable than daytime propagation; 4) there is a seasonal variation in the ELF propagation parameters; and 5) auroral-zone effects appear to be present at both frequencies."
"A limited amount of extremely low frequency (ELF) horizontal magnetic field strength measurements have been taken in Connecticut during the past 3 years. The transmission source for these 1.6 Mm range measurements was the U. S. Navy ELF Wisconsin Test Facility. The principal result obtained from these measurements is that there are considerable variations in the ELF nighttime propagation parameters."
"During August and September 1971, the New London Laboratory, Naval Underwater Systems Center, performed pattern and steering measurements on the Wisconsin Test Facility (WTF) antennas. The pattern measurements were made at 13 locations in Minnesota and Wisconsin (covering approximately 120° of arc), while the far-field steering tests were taken in Maine and North Carolina. To be certain that the receiving sites were acceptable, several components of the received magnetic field were measured at each site and plotted on a normalized cosine curve. The 45- and 75-Hz pattern measurements were made at a range of approximately 300 km, while the steering measurements were performed at 1.7 Mm. The principal results from the pattern and steering measurements were 1) the east-west (EW) antenna pattern is skewed clockwise; 2) the north-south (NS) antenna pattern is skewed counterclockwise; and 3) the effective conductivity under the EW antenna is greater than the effective conductivity under the NS antenna."
"The propagation constant of an electromagnetic wave on a long horizontal thin wire is determined from a modal equation for various situations: an elevated wire; a buried bare wire; a bare wire located in the air-earth interface; and a buried insulated wire. Analytical expressions are derived under the assumption that the height or depth of the wire is much less than the skin depth of the conducting earth and that the angular variation around the wire can be ignored. Although not restrictive in frequency, these conditions are satisfied for extremely low frequency (ELF) and very low frequency (VLF) applications except possibly for deeply buried wires when the effect of the interface is negligible anyway. We show that the propagation constant of a buried bare wire is significantly different from an elevated one for almost all heights of practical interest. When the bare wire is in the interface or buried in close proximity of the earth surface, we find that the square of the wave propagation constant is the average of the squares of the propagation constants in the two media. Of particular interest is the fact that a buried insulated wire has a much smaller propagation constant than a bare wire at the same location. Thus, a horizontal ELF radiating structure, such as the Sanguine antenna, could behave in much the same manner whether it is elevated or located in a buried cylindrical insulating cavity. This conclusion is strictly valid when the length of the structure is small compared with the wavelength of the propagating current in either case, and when adequate grounding of the structure can be achieved."
"The design and implementation of a physical model, simulating the earth-ionosphere space appropriate for extremely low frequency (ELF) wave propagation are described and propagation characteristics as derived from the measured model data over a propagation path up to 20 000 km and for a frequency range of 35-55 Hz are presented in this paper. Measured data on the ELF propagation in the form of amplitude and phase variations of a signal along the propagation path for various simulated ionospheric reflection heights are also discussed. The exponential signal attenuation rates in the form of dB/Mm are derived for various assumed ionospheric heights."
"The Navy's proposed extremely low frequency (ELF) communications system (Sanguine), which would use an earthreturn circuit to excite the earth-ionosphere cavity, represents a potential electrical interference problem. The electromagnetic fields produced by Sanguine could influence other systems such as power distribution lines and telephone circuits, and other very long electrical conductors. This interference potential and the techniques useful in mitigating it are described. Also, data on power and telephone systems are presented that were useful in communications systems design tradeoff studies."
"An overview of laboratory and field studies, completed and in progress, which are designed to disclose possible effects on organisms of a Sanguine system, is presented. The extremely low frequency (ELF) electric and magnetic field levels associated with a Sanguine system are about 0.07 V/m and 0.2 G, respectively, at the surface of the earth directly above a buried Sanguine antenna. The Sanguine Division of the Naval Electronic Systems Command initiated research in 1969 to determine whether biological or ecological effects could be expected from exposure to these low levels. The research spans a broad spectrum of biological sciences, from enzymes to mammalian behavior, and from bacteria and slime molds to primates. Results of completed studies are summarized, and those studies still in progress are discussed. Research results to date show no indication that exposure to ELF field levels associated with a Sanguine system would have any effect on biological or ecological systems. Results of research in progress will be reviewed when available to determine future directions of the program."
"Natural geomagnetic phenomena indicate that wave generation and amplification processes occur spontaneously in the magnetosphere and may be available under certain conditions to permit the frequency band near 1 Hz to be used for communications. An ionospheric duct provides low-loss propagation for waves in this band to distances of thousands of kilometers, and their large skin depth in seawater permits penetration to several hundred meters below the ocean surface. Several methods by which the generation of waves in this band might be possible are described. Methods involving the modulation of ionospheric conductivity include the injection of plasma clouds into the ionosphere and heating of the lowerEregion with powerful radio transmitters. Methods involving nonlinear processes in the magnetosphere include cold plasma injection and very low frequency (VLF)/ultralow frequency (ULF) three-wave interactions."
"In March and April 1973, the 76-Hz magnetic field strength, produced by the Wisconsin Test Facility elevated and (newly installed) buried north-south antennas, was measured in Wisconsin and Texas. The principal result obtained is that there is no measurable difference in performance between the two antennas."
"A number of phenomena that may cause irregularities in extremely low frequency (ELF) ionospheric propagation are suggested. Geomagnetic anisotropy, path asymmetry due to different ionospheric characteristics on the darkened and sunlit hemispheres, effects of strong boundary discontinuities such as the twilight zone or northern latitude sporadicE, and the effects of geophysical trauma such as solar particle fluxes are considered. A primitive analysis of ELF propagation data illustrates that an association can be drawn between the effects of solar charged particle emissions and coincident ELF propagation irregularities. Paths that pass through the auroral zone appear to be most severely affected."
 "The impedance, effective length, and current distribution of a grounding electrode are examined numerically. Its length varies frown being electrically short to being larger than a skin depth. The electrode is taken to be the bared extension of an insulated buried antenna. It is shown that there is little to be gained in making the electrode longer than a skin depth, unless the current distribution can be forced to spread out further along the electrode. Whether or not the properties of the grounding electrode will be affected by the impedance per unit length of the conductor is an important consideration. A criterion to help in this regard is developed."
"This paper presents a brief review of the submarine trailing-wire receiving antenna developments during the past 15 years that pertained to the Sanguine project. Based on this history and the specific Sanguine work, a rationale is developed for the present trailing-wire receiving antenna system. Design details, construction techniques, and testing methods are also discussed. Engineering development models have been tested extensively during numerous sea trials; laboratory accelerated life testing has been accomplished, and long-term reliability testing is continuing. Questions concerning the impedance theory of the submerged bare conductor as an electrode (or antenna/transmission line) element remain, and the electrochemist should definitely be the partner of the electrical engineer in the quest for more precise solutions."
  "The death of Dr. Janis Galejs at age 49 in October 1972, was a great loss to the scientific community. His contributions to the theory of ELF electromagnetic waves have been outstanding. His most recent hook, Terrestrial Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves, published in 1972, summarized, in a masterful fashion, the numerous scientific papers on ELF propagation and radiation theory that he has published over a tragically brief career."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "Extended Kalman filter algorithms are used to obtain a digital phase lock loop structure for demodulation of angle modulated signals. It is shown that the error variance equations obtained directly from this structure enable one to predict threshold if one retains higher frequency terms. This is in sharp contrast to the similar analysis of the analog phase lock loop, where the higher frequency terms are filtered out because of the low pass filter in the loop. Results are compared to actual simulation results and threshold region results obtained previously."
"The Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation (NTT) plans to make a field test for the practical application of the W-40G millimeter waveguide transmission system, using a frequency range of 43 GHz to 87 GHz and a clock frequency of 403 MBd. This paper describes channel multiplexing-demultiplexing networks fabricated for use in the test. First, frequency allocation and construction of the 43 ∼ 87 GHz multiplexing-demultiplexing networks are discussed. Second, newly developed hardware consisting of band-splitting filters and channel-dropping filters is described. Finally, overall loss, frequency response in amplitude and delay and pulse waveform transmission characteristics are shown. The overall losses of the networks constructed by three stages, namely, band-splitting filters (I), (II), and a channel-dropping filter, are 8 ∼ 12 dB over the frequency range from 43 GHz to 87 GHz, with the channel-dropping filters only partly installed. The experimental results suggest that these multiplexing-demultiplexing networks are suitable for the millimeter wave guided wave communication system."
"With the help of the relevant equations and new experimental data on Gunn-effect diodes, both with InP and with GaAs, pulse frequency modulation is discussed for 1 Gigapulse/s with anXband carrier. Improvements in switching speeds are reported by multifrequency operation during transient. The use of mode jumping for frequency shifting offers useful features."
"The literature dealing with communication theory contains numerous analyses of the effect of fading on communications signals, while the literature dealing with ionospheric physics contains numerous models and measurements of ionosphericinduced scintillation. This correspondence relates the two; thus, the literature of each field can be applied to the other."
"This paper presents the results of a propagation survey and the actual performance of a subsequently installed troposcatter system between East and West Malaysia, a distance of 739 km (463 mi), mainly over water. The survey was carried out at 1840 MHz and the installed system uses the 900-MHz band. The path attenuation results are compared with predictions based on the International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) method. The noise performances of the installed system with a capacity of 48 voice channels are compared against CCIR objectives for the hypothetical reference circuit."
"Approximately 2 percent of Bell System loops are longer than the central office switching equipment design limit of 1300 Ω. These long loops require treatment on a special basis with the use of so-called long line circuits and voice frequency repeaters. The complexity, cost, and lack of a simple way to test the loop through these circuits led to a new design. In this paper, we describe the REG, an integrated signaling Range Extender with a voice frequency Gain unit which overcomes these shortcomings. The key to providing the improved features is a novel electronic dual-mode current detector. The requirements and design of the current detector are covered in detail. Finally, we discuss REG operation illustrating the problems of the switching system interface."
"Telemedicine may be defined as the practice of medicine at long distance by means of telecommunications, in particular, closed-circuit television and telemetry. Two-way television enables physicians to establish a nominal doctor-patient relationship with patients at a remote location, while providing the means for visual examination of patients. Biomedical telemetry transmits patients' vital signs, detected by standard medical bioelectric sensors and physiological function transducers. In a telemedicine simulation experiment, a test group of physicians deemed black-and-white television adequate for most diagnostic purposes, but expressed a preference for color. The group evidenced little interest in picture resolution greater than that provided by the standard U.S. 525-line system. The Plumbicon camera was said to provide better pictures for medical purposes than the vidicon. In either color or black-and-white television, lighting is a critical factor in the proper rendition of flesh tones as well as in providing the necessary illusion of depth for the observation of detail. Commercial television lighting practices are directly applicable. The inclusion of certain colored items in the televised scene aid in the interpretation of color television pictures. Designing the biomedical portion of a telemedicine system requires knowledge of the various electrical characteristics of the vital signs to be transmitted. These cover a wide range of frequencies and amplitudes. Most bioelectric potentials are so small that special care must be taken to avoid artifacts produced by electrical interference."
"A random-access digital multiplex system is considered in the context of a cellular mobile radio system. Three different ways of implementing this technique in a cellular system are described. With the aid of certain simplifying assumptions, the techniques are compared as to their traffic-carrying capacity."
"We consider a transform coding system that uses a lower-triangular transformation to uncorrelate the data. Based on this transformation we propose a generalized differential pulse code modulation (DPCM) system and show that at high bit rates it performs almost as well as coding by the method of principal components (Karhunen-Loeve transformation). This study connects the transform coding system to the DPCM encoder by showing that the proposed system simplifies to a standard DPCM encoder for Markov data."
"Considering the eye-openings of a Class 4 partial response signal, expressions are derived for the horizontal eye-opening and for the vertical opening after single-sideband (SSB) transmission with a carrier phase error. The latter result is obtained at both the original sampling time and at the optimum sampling time."
"The transient behavior of the phase-error probability density function of the first-order phase-locked loop (PLL) in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise is determined using numerical techniques. In addition, the modulo-2π probability density function and cycle-slipping density functions are found. The algorithm used in these calculations involves numerical integration of a modified form of the Fokker-Planck (F-P)equation. Results are shown for cases involving various signal-to-noise ratios (SNR's and initial conditions."
"Simulation results are presented for the error-rate performance of the recursive digital maximum a posteriori probability (MAP) detector for knownM-ary signals in multiplicative and additive Gaussian noise. The structure of the digital simulation of the optimum detector is generally described, with specific results obtained for a quaternary signal and 2500 digit per second transmission rate. The simulation is focused on the aeronautical multipath communication problem. Plots of detection error rate versus additive signal-to-noise ratio are given, with the power ratio of multiplicative process to desired signal as a parameter. Results are presented for the cases where the detector has perfect knowledge of the first- and second-order statistics of the multiplicative and additive processes and also where these statistics are estimated in near real time. For comparison, the error rates of conventional coherent and noncoherent digital MAP detectors are also obtained. It is shown that with nonzero multiplicative noise, the error rates of the conventional detectors saturate at a level that is irreducible for increasing additive signal-to-noise ratio. The error rate of the optimum detector having perfect statistical knowledge continues to decrease rapidly with increasing additive signal-to-noise ratio. In the absence of multiplicative noise, the conventional coherent detector and the optimum detector are shown to exhibit identical performance. Suboptimum detectors, having less than perfect statistical knowledge, yield error rates bounded below by the optimum detector rates and bounded above by the conventional detector rates."
"A coarse search synchronization technique is described for switched time division multiple access (TDMA) satellite systems, using a coded search signal. It is shown that this method achieves coarse search synchronization much faster, on the average, than the burst synchronization method described by Rapuano and Shimasaki. A description of an integrated synchronization system that combines the coded search signal used for coarse synchronization with the sync burst signal used for fine adjustment and tracking is included."
"A digital computer simulation of a frequency-modulation differentially coherent phase-shift-keying (FM-DCPSK) system is described. This simulation program is used to investigate the effect of intersymbol interference on the error-rate performance of the two- and four-phase system. Nyquist channels have been obtained and verified. Performance curves are presented to facilitate system design."
"A description is given for a delta modulation system wherein the sampling interval is varied as a function of the characteristics of the signal to be coded. The system thus operates asynchronously as compared with the usual delta modulator, and permits the transmission of fewer samples during periods of small signal variation. The algorithm used for sampling interval variation is common to both transmitting and receiving ends of the system, and so signal reconstitution at the receiver is possible without the explicit transmission of interval information. Some results are presented in the form of line printer generated images."
"Studies for the Skylab PCM links reveal that for a binary PCM/FM communication receiving system with a rectangular predetection bandpass filter, an ideal limiter discriminator and an ideal integrate-and-dump postdetection filter, suboptimal system performance can be achieved by choosing the largest possible value of deviation index which lies approximately at0.7 + 2n, wheren = 0,1,.. ,k. The upper limitkofnis partially determined by the reconstructability of the PCM signal after passing through the bandpass filter. Experimental data support favorably the theoretical result."
"In this note the maximum likelihood detector forMpulse-position-modulated (PPM) signals in Laguerre communications is derived. A decision-directed maximum likelihood estimator for the delay ofMPPM signals is discussed."
"Two hybrid coding systems utilizing a cascade of a unitary transformation and differential pulse code modulators (DPCM) systems are proposed. Both systems encode the transformed data by a bank of DPCM systems. The first system uses a one-dimensional transform of the data where the second one employs two-dimensional transformations. Theoretical results for Markov data and experimental results for a typical picture are presented for Hadamard, Fourier, cosine, slant, and the KarhunenLoeve transformations. The visual effects of channel error and also the impact of noisy channel on the performance of the hybrid system, measured in terms of the signal-to-noise ratio of the encoder, is examined and the performance of this system is compared to the performances of the two-dimensional DPCM and the standard two-dimensional transform encoders."
"A protocol that supports the sharing of resources that exist in different packet switching networks is presented. The protocol provides for variation in individual network packet sizes, transmission failures, sequencing, flow control, end-to-end error checking, and the creation and destruction of logical process-to-process connections. Some implementation issues are considered, and problems such as internetwork routing, accounting, and timeouts are exposed."
"Control, supervisory, and order wire signal transmission, i.e., service channel (SC) is a requirement for most microwave systems. In digital radio the data spectrum extends to the lowest baseband (BB) frequencies. Frequency translation of the SC above the data spectrum is one possibility. Another method, in frequent use, is the double modulation technique, e.g., the SC amplitude modulates the carrier that is already phase modulated by the data spectrum. A novel approach that results in significant equipment cost savings and good performance is proposed. The low-frequency power density spectrum of the random multilevel channel coded data is removed. The vacated spectrum is available for the SC. For different bit rates, the error probabilityP(e)degradation due to SC is calculated. The analysis is performed for various channel coded messages and SC spectrum utilizations. The high-pass filter that assures low-frequency data spectrum removal is optimized for the SC signal to noise ratio and dataP(e)degradation. The analysis is verified with computer simulations and actual multilevel frequency-shift keying (FSK) 6-GHz microwave hop measurements. The proposed approach is also applicable to analog microwave systems when carrying hybrid information. The hybrid system carries an SC, 6.3-Mb/s data, and 900 frequency division multiplexed voice channels in a shared BB."
"Records of a 4-GHz 42-km propagation experiment near Atlanta, Ga. indicate that a squall line of heavy rain along the path caused 7-dB rain attenuation and degraded the cross-polarization discrimination from 27 dB down to 9 dB."
"This paper is the second of a two-part study summarizing the results of a research program on the survivability analysis of command and control communication(C^{3})systems. In the first part, we consider the formulation of realistic survivability models and criteria and the fundamental physical problems affecting survivability analysis. In this paper, we first discuss algorithms for deterministic analysis of C3systems to identify bottlenecks and more vulnerable elements in network structure. The problems encountered in probabilistic analysis techniques are then discussed. Finally, an efficient, practical probabilistic survivability analysis procedure is given and an example of its use is presented."
"It is known that, under certain conditions, the logarithm of the envelope and the instantaneous phase deviation of a singlesideband amplitude-modulated (SSB-AM) channel signal form Hilbert pairs. This minimum phase relationship has previously been employed to demodulate SSB-AM asynchronously and without distortion. The demodulator consisted of an envelope detector followed by nonlinear post-detection processing to reconstruct the phase deviation and, finally, the transmitted baseband signal. We now establish a function theoretic basis to study asynchronously detected SSB-AM signals having nonminimum phase. The received baseband signal from the envelope-to-phase demodulator is obtained in terms of the transmitted baseband signal, carrier level, and a function determined by the upper half-plane zeros of the baseband analytic signal. It is shown that the received signal exhibits nonlinear distortion. Furthermore, if the transmitted baseband signal is band-limited, we show that the baseband distortion is limited to the same band as the transmitted signal. Finally, bounds are obtained on the difference between the received baseband signal and the transmitted baseband signal."
"A hybrid information carrier is defined as a carrier for partly analog and partly digital source information. Some of the reported schemes transmit 1.5 Mbits/s and 1200 frequency division multiplexing (FDM) channels, others 6.3 Mbits/s and 600 FDM channels, in the shared spectrum of the microwave baseband (BB). Baseband diversity (BBD) is frequently used in this type of system. As hybrid transmission is getting wider popularity, it is important to determine the requirements on hybrid BBD systems. Different block diagrams are considered and performance of realizable hybrid BBD units is discussed. The BBD has different configurations for different data rates. We discuss the reasons for this within the theoretical performance and practical limit of technology. The important functions of signal presence and noise evaluation occur in the BBD. A novel approach to noise evaluation in the BB of microwave systems is feasible with digital techniques. The analog noise and pilot detection are in its threshold for high noise condition and fast pilot sensing time requirement. The proposed scheme evaluates digitally the error probabilityP(e), based on error detections, and works well in high noise conditions."
"This paper is the first of a two part study summarizing the results of a research program on the survivability analysis of command and control communication(C^{3})systems. In the first part, we consider the formulation of realistic survivability models and criteria, determine the fundamental physical problems affecting survivability analysis, and determine suitable approaches to the survivability problem. The second part first discusses algorithms for deterministic analysis of C3systems to identify bottlenecks and more vulnerable elements in network structure. The problems encountered in probabilistic survivability analysis and basic probabilistic analysis techniques are then discussed. Finally, an efficient, practical probabilistic survivability analysis procedure is given and an example of its use is presented."
 "A new look is taken at maximum-likelihood sequence estimation in the presence of intersymbol interference. A uniform receiver structure for linear carrier-modulated data-transmission systems is derived which for decision making uses a modified version of the Viterbi algorithm. The algorithm operates directly on the output signal of a complex matched filter and, in contrast to the original algorithm, requires no squaring operations; only multiplications by discrete pulse-amplitude values are needed. Decoding of redundantly coded sequences is included in the consideration. The reason and limits for the superior error performance of the receiver over a conventional receiver employing zero-forcing equalization and symbol-by-symbol decision making are explained. An adjustment algorithm for jointly approximating the matched filter by a transversal filter, estimating intersymbol interference present at the transversal filter output, and controlling the demodulating carrier phase and the sample timing, is presented."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A true envelope detector is presented and compared with the polyphase envelope detector. It theoretically has no carrier feedthrough."
"Useful comments on a recent paper by Osborne and Schilling, concerning the occurrence of spikes, are offered in this correspondence."
 "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An all digital phase-locked loop (DPLL) is designed, analyzed, and tested. Three specific configurations are considered, generating first, second, and third order DPLL's; and it is found, using a computer simulation of a noise spike, and verified experimentally, that of these configurations the second-order system is optimum from the standpoint of threshold extension. This substantiates results obtained for analog PLL's."
  "With regard to Mark's statements concerning the adaptive algorithm described in the previous paper, he is correct in stating that the basic form of the algorithm is due to him. The author wishes to extend an apology to Dr. Mark for failing to credit him specifically in the previous paper1 for developing the basic form of this algorithm. The final form of the algorithm used in that paper and described therein by (36) and (37) represents an extension to the algorithm developed by Mark, and should have been labeled as such rather than as a new algorithm. With regard to Mark's statement concerning the use of the tanh(·) nonlinearity, the author did publish a brief letter (1971) concerning some simulations using such a nonlinearity. However, the present paper contains the theoretical justification for this nonlinearity and its use in equalization, the results of extensive simulations using it, and a comparison of its performance to presently existing equalizers. All of this last, contrary to Mark's claim, represents new work."
    "The problem of computing the distributions of the envelope and instantaneous value of the sum of several sine waves plus Gaussian noise is reviewed. It is pointed out that the associated integrals can be efficiently evaluated by the trapezoidal rule except when the noise is small. Approximations which hold when the noise is small are given."
 "To realize the full redundancy reducing potential of run length coding over a collection of picture segments with varying run length statistics, adaptive coding techniques have been proposed. This paper compares results for a previously proposedA-code, for which the block length was varied adaptively, with those obtained using a fixed block lengthB-code first proposed here. Both codes use variable length codewords integrally related to the code block length. For all pictures analyzed, the fixed block lengthB-code performed nearly as well as the adaptiveA-code. For both, the bit rates were close to the entropy bound. The reasons for these results are discussed. It is Shown that, due to the prevalence of exceptionally long runs, theA-code, which is nearly optimal for exponentially distributed run lengths, performs poorly for actual pictures unless the block length is varied adaptively. The strategy used to implement the A-code adaptively is described. The optimal block length of the B-code,on the other hand, is shown to be largely independent of the picture statistics and need therefore not be varied adaptively. The hardware implementation of both coding techniques, the influence of channel disturbances on image quality, and the problems of error correction and line synchronization are discussed."
"In this concise paper, we describe the concept of a local loop communication system with distributed control. Digital signals offered by the subscribers are parceled and transmitted in blocks to their destination using address-coding. Access of the terminals to the loop is gained by switching a delay network (shift register, containing the message block to be transmitted) into the loop line. This strategy guarantees that every station is able to transmit a message at any time regardless of the traffic conditions in the loop. A quantitative analysis of the loop traffic capabilities as a fnnction of the loop parameters is given. A laboratory model for line frequencies of about 10 Mb/s is presently being built. It allows data and telephone connections including such features as call back, call transfer and forwarding. Loop transmission is realized by means of a three-core symmetrical cable which carries the data sequences and the timing information separately. This allows the use of an extremely simple regenerator. Possible applications include integrated in-house communication systems and control and supervisory systems for manufacturing processes, railway stations and trains."
"It sometimes is desirable to separate data from feedback-acknowledgment signals in a duplex communication link. An efficient technique for sending the two types of signals separately and reliably is described."
"Performance evaluations and measurement principles of hybrid information carriers, that is, carriers for partly analog and partly digital source infomation, are established. Simulation requirements, which are independent from a particular hybrid configuration or system capacity, for the analog and digital sources are presented. In order to perform the analysis of multilevel digital streams, a simple formula for the power spectrum density of the randomn-level Gray-coded stream is derived. With normalization of the formula, the same power density spectrum for any number of levels is achieved. The required length of the pseudorandom sequence as a function of the transmission characteristics and hybrid environment is established. The measurement difficulties, when the noise source is not Gaussian, are discussed."
"The spectrum of a time-division-multiplexed (TDM) pulse-position-modulated (PPM) signal consists of three parts-the continuous part, which is simply the sum of the continuous parts of the spectra of the separate channels; lines on harmonics of the maximum overall pulse-repetition frequency (PRF), which are also independent of any permutation among the channels; and the lines on the other harmonics of the single-channel PRF. Simple expressions are found for all three parts under the assumption thatN - m - nchannels are empty,nare unmodulated, and the remainingmcontain independent, identically uniformly distributed pulse positions. A complicated expression is found for the variances of the lines in the last part of the spectrum under a random choice of the modulated and unmodulated channels, and a simple approximation is presented for it."
"A source encoding algorithm which is suitable for quantized data is presented. The algorithm is intuitive rather than rigorous and has good performance over a wide range of inputs with only one variable parameter. Consequently, it is applicable to situations in which the source statistics are only partially understood or are time varying. The algorithm is explained, and some of its properties and performance are explored."
"Newton's method for root finding is shown to be an effective algorithm for computing maximum likelihood estimates of the bias parameter in Hall's optimum receiver for digital singals in impulse noise. Use of a bias estimator allows the receiver to be adaptively instrumented. A simulation indicates that the number of independent samples of the impulse noise, as modeled by Hall, should be around 20 000 for satisfactory parameter estimates."
"It is observed that the estimation of mean signal strength in the mobile radio environment has inherent uncertainties. These may not influence the observed distribution of the mean signal strength but would certainly mask efforts to obtain level crossing rates and duration of fades. A new parameter, duration of stay, is defined which appears to be insensitive to the granular variations of the mean signal strength and would be helpful in the determination of the switching rate in a base station diversity system."
"Some simple lower bounds for the probability of error for band-restricted digital communication are presented. The bounds revolve two values of the complementary error function, the system SNR, the peak value, second moment, and sometimes, the fourth moment of the intersymbol interference. Contrary to other available lower bounds, no parameter searches or infinite series computations are required. The bounds hold when the system \"eye\" is open and in some cases when the source symbols are correlated."
"An analysis has been made of how dither added to the input of a polarity coincidence correlator eliminates capture of a weak signal by an unwanted signal. For certain interfering environments the output signal-to-noise ratio of various correlators with three specific input dithers is analyzed. The correlators considered were a polarity coincidence correlator with: 1) no dither, 2) dither of random, amplitude uniformly distributed between the chosen plus-and-minus peak values, 3) sinusoidal dither, and 4) Gaussian dither. Each correlator was analyzed for the cases of Gaussian-noise, rectangular-wave, and sinusoidal interference and compared with the classical correlator. The choice of dither amplitude based upon the measured value of the noise power was studied. A uniformly distributed dither is shown to be slightly superior to sinusoidal dither, and both superior to Gaussian noise."
"A study is made of differential PCM (D-PCM), which is a relatively simple but efficient coding system for TV signals. The purpose of this paper is to optimize the D-PCM system with special consideration of the visual property, that is, to obtain the optimum prediction coefficient and the optimum companding characteristics with consideration of the contract sensitivity used in D-PCM. It is found that when the visual property is considered, the optimum prediction coefficientaapproaches 1.0 or complete integration (i.e., integration with an infinite leak time constant), although when the visual property is not considered, the optimum prediction coefficientais the ratio of autocovariances, as we know from previous presentations."
"Novel demodulator structures are derived for quasioptimal on-line demodulation of pulse-frequency modulated (PFM) signals in the presence of white Gaussian channel noise. The basic demodulator consists of a phase-locked loop with its integrators appropriately reset as each new pulse is received. This modulator may be augmented with additional integrators and gain elements to achieve quasi-optimal demodulation with delay. The quasi-optimal demodulation approaches optimal demodulation, in the minimum mean-square error sense, as the signal-to-noise ratio increases. The various quasi-optimal receivers are derived by application of the extended Kalman filter theory to a state-space signal model."
"One of the basic terminal-attachment configurations is the loop. As such, it is receiving substantial attention. But it has been pointed out that loop communication networks are relatively vulnerable and unreliable. This paper considers the single-loop reliability problem. Three loop reliability (availability) improvement techniques are investigated in detail. All three techniques are based on using an auxilliary transmission path parallel to the main loop. A comparative study shows the best techniques."
"Differentially coherent phase shift keying (DPSK) is commonly used to provide data communication on frequency dispersive channels. To obtain higher data rates one can increase the number of phases or employ combined amplitude-phase modulation. In this paper we compare the performance of multilevel DPSK with the performance of Type I amplitude-phase modulation on a frequency dispersive channel with additive noise. For the Type I system differential modulation is used to amplitude encode a single bit, and ordinary DPSK is used to encode up to four phase bits. Curves of bit error probability versus the effective signal-signal-to-noise ratio of the channel are presented for both the amplitude and phase encoded bits. From these curves the appropriate amount of amplitude modulation to be employed in a high rate Type I system can be obtained. Performance comparisons between multilevel DPSK and Type I modulation are then presented under conditions of both equal average and peak transmitter power."
"A new system of self-instruction which combines the desirable features of video tape and analog graphic recording is developed. By means of multiplexing techniques, four types of information are recorded on standard video tape: 1) video, 2) voice, 3) three channels of physiological data, and 4) control signals for the operation of auxiliary equipment. The latter three are combined and applied to a single audio track of the video tape recorder by successive time-division and frequency-division multiplexing; the video channel is unaltered."
"Plateau coding is a method for efficiently coding the chromatic component of color television signals. The signal is divided into regions of approximately constant chromaticity which are transmitted by sending one set of chrominance values for the whole region. Since most changes in chrominance are accompanied by luminance changes, the luminance signal (which must be transmitted quite accurately) is used at the transmitter and receiver to indicate changes in the two chrominance signals; thus no addresses need be sent to define the boundaries of the region at the receiver. Simulations have shown that plateau coding can give pictures of high quality for chrominance bit-rates in the range 0.25-0.5 bits per luminance sample, assuming straightforward pulse-code modulation (PCM) coding of the chrominance amplitudes."
"A simple connection is shown to exist between the Hadamard transforms of a discrete signalAand a signalBobtained fromAin three different ways: a) time scaling ofA; b) expandingAby means of zero insertion; and c) lettingArepeat itself. Both one-dimensional and two-dimensional cases are investigated."
"Synchronization plays an important role in digital communication networks. A procedure for synchronizing the local clocks in anN-node network is explored in this concise paper. The procedure, termed \"discrete control correction,\" utilizes buffer contents and rates to derive correction signals to the local VCXO's. The system is formulated as a second-order matrix difference equation, which is examined for stability. A two-node network is analyzed as an example, and stability bounds are determined for the control parameters."
"Modifications to the first phase of Neiman's algorithm to control the rearrangeable switching networks (RSN) are presented. This algorithm is not limited to networks composed of (2 × 2 )switches. These modifications result in lowering the upper bound on the number of iterative steps which must be performed in the second phase of Neiman's algorithm. An example is given to show that this bound is tight. With RSN's of base 2 structure, the modified Neiman's algorithm is seen to be equivalent to the looping algorithm previously studied. It is also pointed out that the interpretation of the control for RSN as a matrix decomposition can have some practical significance which could increase the efficiency in switch rearrangements. The modified algorithm was implemented with a minicomputer, and a typical printout appears in the Appendix."
"Tight upper and lower bounds on the average probability of error are obtained for the nonlinear optimum sequential detector with zero \"look ahead.\" A linear upper bound is obtained that is very tight over a wide range of signal-to-noise ratios and a wide range of values of the intersymbol interference. The structure of the linear detector whose performance is given by the linear bound is determined and shown to take the form of a semi-infinite transversal equalizer. The tap values of the equalizer are related to the channel impulse response and the performance of realizable truncated equalizers is obtained in the form of the average probability of error versus equalizer length."
"A study of combining two ways of reducing the redundancy in the digital representation of speech signals is presented. Differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) encodes the signal into digital form and reduces the redundancy due to correlation in adjacent sample values of the signal. Following this DPCM operation, entropy coding is used to reduce redundancy due to the unequal probabilities of the DPCM quantizer levels to be transmitted. Theoretical studies agree with Computer simalation results with real speech signals. The concepts of sliding entropy and sliding signal to quantizing noise(S/N)ratio are developed to measure the way in which the entropy andS/Nratio vary with time during a speech utterance. Plots of these quantities versus time for four different utterances are shown. Both adaptive and nonadaptive quantizers are studied. And both uniform and minimum mean-square error quantizing rules are included. Buffer length requirements are calculated for the entropy coders."
"For the equalization of linearly distorted partial response signals a new equalizer adjustment algorithm is described, which combines fast convergence, ease of implementation, and the possibility of using the same adjustment method during start-up and subsequent transmission."
"Expressions for the output signal-to-noise power ratio of a bandpass soft limiter followed by a coherent detection device are presented and discussed. It is found that a significant improvement in the output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at low input SNR's can be achieved by such soft limiters as compared to hard limiters. This indicates that the soft limiter may be of some use in the area of threshold extension. Approximation methods for determining output signal-to-noise spectral densities are also presented."
"An integrated telephone network requires synchronization of digital signal streams arriving at each switching system with its switching points. A new synchronization control system for this purpose was already proposed by one of the authors and the final clock rate and stability criterion were discussed in the preceding material. Continuing with this discussion, impulse responses of the proposed control system applied to mesh networks are mathematically analyzed under the condition that all of the clock pulse generators have respective clock rate derivations from their nominal value. The conclusion was arrived at that the more stations included in a network, the shorter the time elapsed before the frame pulse phase disturbances are settled down to a steady state, although this tendency is rather gradual. The dynamic response of the synchronization control system applied to mesh networks, a ring network, a chain network, and an assumed worldwide network are computer simulated in linear and three-value clock rate control modes and the characteristic of the control system is clarified."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Delta modulation (DM) is an attractive method of analog-to-digital (A/D) conversion in applications where simple and economical designs must be realized without sacrificing conversion quality. This paper describes a new single-chip, bipolar integrated circuit delta modulator that maintains a high conversion resolution over a wide range of sampling frequencies and ambient conditions. Its high-speed operation (maximum sampling rates greater than 15 Mbit/s) is achieved with lower power requirements than with comparable discrete realizations. Low sensitivities to power supply and ambient temperature variations, achieved with a novel logic design, make this circuit useful in a telephone switching office environment and as a buildlng block for other linear and companded analog-to-PCM converters."
 "It is shown that a second-order digital notch filter is uniquely characterized by two distinct parameters, the notch frequency and the 3-dB rejection bandwidth. As a result, such a filter can be realized using only two multipliers. Methods are outlined to design a notch filter for a prescribed notch frequency and a prescribed 3-dB rejection bandwidth, along with procedures for postdesign adjustment of these parameters. All two-multiplier, canonic and noncanonic, notch filter configurations are developed using the multiplier extraction approach. These networks are then compared with regard to the effect of internal multiplication roundoff errors. Results of computer simulation of the notch filter configurations are also included."
"The circuit configuration, operational principles, and some test data on three new types of equalizers applicable for use in FM microwave radio links are described. The equalizers are namely of the reflection type, frequency converter type, and AM-PM conversion type. The reflection type delay equalizer permits variation of relative delay time while keeping the absolute delay time constant at the center frequency or permits variation of absolute delay time while keeping the relative delay time constant. The frequency converter type equalizer adopts a principle whereby variation in local frequency (supplied to the frequency converter) facilitates continuous variation of the relative delay time, absolute delay time, and amplitude frequency response. The AM-PM conversion type differential gain equalizer enables equalization of differential gain through the combined use of the AM-PM converter circuit and the delay circuit."
"Bucket-brigade devices have been used to build a new type of active filter that is equivalent to a second-order digital filter without the need for complex analog-to-digital conversion. The filter response characteristics, i.e., center frequency and bandwidth, depend on the circuit parameters of gain and clock frequency, both of which may be electronically controlled. By using a variable clock signal, 1023 frequencies can be accurately selected by the proper setting of ten switches. The selected clock frequency uniquely determines the center frequency of the bucket-brigade filter. The programmable feature of the clock circuit, therefore, allows the convenient selection of the center frequency of the bandpass filter. A slight modification to the programmable bandpass filter converts it into a programmable oscillator. Thus, any one of 1023 tones can be generated by the proper setting of the switches. A device that exhibits both filter and oscillator functions has been demonstrated in the laboratory."
"The bucket-brigade delay line (BBDL) is a sampled data circuit in which signal samples are stored and manipulated as packets of charge under the control of a digitally generated clock. The clock-controllable time delay function that is realized by the BBDL may be used to implement a number of signal processing functions. The tapped delay line or transversal filter structure is of particular interest, however, since it has wide application in the field of signal processing. The implementation of transversal filters via BBDL's is examined. The impact of nonideal delay line parameters on filter performance is considered and the results of computer simulations are presented. The practicability of monolithic transversal filters is demonstrated and the performance of experimental filters is described."
"Modern narrow-band pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) and pulse-code modulation (PCM) systems require the generation of precisely shaped pulses in order to avoid intersymbol interference. It is not a simple matter to design analog filters having pulse responses with the requisite carefully positioned zeros, and this has led researchers to study other approaches. It is shown that the use of a binary transversal filter (BTF) coupled with a simple low-pass filter can generate extremely good pulses with small bandwidths. A BTF consists of a digital shift register and weighting resistor network to construct a staircase approximation to the desired pulse. The attendant circuitry is very simple, such that a highquality pulse generator can be built and adjusted with remarkable ease. The problem of pulse design using BTF's is considered in some generality, and a computational procedure is developed for adjusting the weighting network in the BTF to generate optimum pulse shapes. This method is then applied to several practical cases, and the circuitry required to generate excellent pulses is discussed. Test results on an implementation of such a generator using only five taps are presented, revealing the inherent simplicity and quality of the approach."
"A vestigial sideband system seems attractive for transmitting video signals over media of limited bandwidth. Linearity constraints in the unavoidable intermediate equalizers (repeaters) limit the level of the transmitted carrier to such an extent that envelope detection is precluded. In a proposed video system the transmitted signal includes a partially suppressed carrier and an out-of-band pilot tone. At the receiver a voltage of the exact carrier frequency is regenerated from this pilot tone. But synchronous detection of a video signal requires the exact phase of the incoming carrier as well. Distortion considerations limit the width of the guard bands around the partially suppressed carrier to such an extent that conventional filtering cannot be used to retrieve its phase. A special type of a phase-locked loop which adjusts the phase of the locally generated carrier to that of the incoming partially suppressed one was therefore designed and tested. Design considerations, circuit diagrams and test results for this circuit are presented here. Subjective tests have demonstrated the feasibility of the proposed system for transmitting a video signal of 1-MHz bandwidth over a repeatered twisted pair."
"Phase-locked oscillators (PLO's) have two main areas of application: demodulation and synchronization. In this tutorial paper, a simplified approach to designing PLO's for synchronization is described. In particular, some tradeoffs which can be made between such characteristics as capture range, jitter attenuation, time to lock, and phase offset are presented. As examples of this approach, the method is applied to three circuits in a Picturephone®video coder-decoder (CODEC). The application of an optimum phase comparator is also described."
"A new technique is presented for evaluating the performance of a popular type of timing recovery circuit for baseband synchronous pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) data signals. The timing circuit consists of a square-law device followed by a narrowband filter tuned to the pulse repetition frequency along with provision for reshaping the pulses entering the timing path (prefiltering). The output of the timing circuit is a nearly sinusoidal timing wave whose zero crossings indicate the appropriate sampling instants for demodulation of the PAM signal. For a random data sequence, the timing wave exhibits phase fluctuations which are strongly dependent on the pulse shapes entering the timing path and the passband shape of the narrow-band filter. Expressions for rms phase fluctuation in the timing wave as a function of the prefiltering and postfiltering characteristics of the filters preceding and following the square-law device are presented. These expressions have a form which is especially suitable for studying the case where the baseband PAM signal is band-limited to frequencies less than the pulse repetition frequency. A condition on prefiltering and postfiltering which gives error-free timing recovery is presented. Results obtained from some specific examples serve to illustrate several aspects of the timing recovery problem."
"A digital differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) codec based on ΔM/DPCM and DPCM/ΔM digital conversions is presented as an equivalent replacement of a conventional DPCM codec for TV signals by using digital processing technology. A generalized model and equivalent circuit are shown for the digital DPCM codec, and transfer characteristics and quantizing noises are analyzed. The digital DPCM codec is designed for 1-MHz TV signals and the performance is verified by experiments. By the use of double integration ΔM and digital filter technology, it is shown that at the ΔM sampling rate of 16 MHz the overall SNR performance is sufficiently good for use as a conventional DPCM codec, and the digital code converters can be realized with commercially available transistor-transistor-logic (TTL) medium-scale-integrated (MSI) circuits and low-power emitter-coupled-logic (ECL) integrated circuits (IC's)."
"Symmetry conditions are derived for the amplitude and phase response of vestigial-sideband (VSB) filters. A design technique, based on Szentirmai's frequency transformation, is described for the realization of filters which automatically satisfy these symmetry relations. The synthesis can be carried out with either thesor thez(transformed frequency) variable. It is shown that for sharply selective VSB filters the delay distortion exhibits an even symmetry around the carrier frequency. The equalization of loss and phase distortions can thus be easily carried out in the baseband. A typical design problem is described and solved to illustrate the effectiveness of the suggested synthesis technique."
"A thin-film hybrid integrated circuit autobalanced diode transmission gate used in a voice-band pulse-code modulation (PCM) terminal will be described. The gate circuit is designed for sample and hold and resampler operations prior to digitalization and after decoding. As in the sampling circuits previously designed for an experimental high-speed high-performance PCM terminal, the diode quad gate is switched by a current routing emitter-coupled transistor pair. In this configuration the diodes are effectively current switched, resulting in extremely low distortion of the signal samples. With the most commonly used voltage-controlled diode quad gate, subnanosecond switching speeds are required to obtain the same linearity obtained here with much lower switching speeds. In the voice-band coding application, any appreciable gate output voltage offset can impair the overall coder-decoder S/N ratio for low level signals. A novel circuit arrangement has been incorporated into the basic current-routed diode gate circuit, which reduces the output voltage offset normally associated with circuits of this type to very low levels. Although the particular circuit to be described is only moderately fast, a similar configuration having all the features, using higher speed beam leaded transistors and diodes available, would switch in the order of a nanosecond."
"The design of active amplitude and delay equalizers to be used in private line data systems is considered. These equalizers provide sufficient flexibility of adjustment so that one type of amplitude equalizer and one type of delay equalizer are sufficient for all applications. They replace families of passive equalizers which permitted relatively limited or no adjustment."
"The technical concept realized by the channel bank is optimum with respect to a variety of requirements. Considerations of size and fabrication technology recommend a frequency of 50 kHz for the mechanical filter. The general concept of the modulator suggests a filter design with tuned conventional transformers. Since subsequent adjustment of the assembled mechanical part of the filter is undesirable, the provision of finite attenuation poles has been abandoned at the expense of adding two extra resonantors. The design imposes only modest demands as to the reproducibility of the mechanical couplings. By tuning the transformers it is possible to correct minor production tolerances. A special design of the channel and associated signal filter results in a very low temperature dependence and permits to connect both filters directly in parallel."
   "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "It is argued that transmission systems/filters, etc., design must be carried out basically in the time domain in terms of rise time, overshoot or undershoot of the instantaneous amplitude/ phaselfrequency specifications. No attempt should be made to define the group delay characteristics because it is neither sufficient, nor necessary. Group delay approximating functions and measurements should be kept where they belong; in the design and measurements concerned with delay, lines."
"A computerized procedure for obtaining the pull-in frequency of a phase-locked loop is described. The procedure, which consists of solving for the limit cycle of the out-of-lock loop and finding the frequency offset below which no solution exists, is quite general with respect to phase detector function and loop filter. It is applied in this study to the case of a second-order loop with a sinusoidal phase detector. The results of the study give normalized pull-in frequencyXas a function of the damping factor\\zetaand normalized natural frequency β of the linearized closed loop. A review of several previously published investigations of this case is given, and the limitations identified point the way to the more exact solution described here. In addition, an experimental study is described which produces excellent agreement with the new results, and a curve-fitting procedure is outlined which leads to a highly accurate functional description ofXin terms of β and\\zeta."
"The statistics of the weight distribution of subsequences of digital sequences called hybrid-sum sequences, formed from the modulo-two sum of several maximum length sequences, are analyzed. The results indicate that a relation exists between the statistics of the weight distribution of the subsequences and the characteristic polynomials of the component maximum length sequences. An analysis procedure is developed for identifying a large group of sequences with good statistical properties for applications requiring the generation of analog pseudorandom noise by filtering digital sequences. Using the analysis approach, the filtering process is approximated by the convolution of the sequence with a sum of unit-step functions. The first five moments of the resulting weighttuples are used to characterize the statistics of the filtered sequence. The analysis reveals that the statistics of the signals generated with the hybrid-sum generator are potentially superior for many applications to the statistics of signals generated with single maximum length sequence generators. Furthermore, fewer calculations are required to evaluate the statistics of a large group of hybrid-sum generators than are required to evaluate the statistics of the same size group of approximately equivalent maximum length sequences. Efficient algorithms that may be used to evaluate the statistics of hybrid-sum sequences are indicated, and example calculations are given."
"Continuous phase frequency shift keying (CPFSK) is potentially an attractive modulation scheme for use on channels whose performance is limited by thermal noise. In this paper results for the performance available with CPFSK are given for coherent detection and noncoherent detection with arbitrary modulation indices and arbitrary observation intervals. This work serves two purposes. First, it provides interesting, new results for the noncoherent detection of CPFSK which indicate that the performance of such a system can be better than the performance of coherent PSK. Secondly, it provides a complete analysis of the performance of CPFSK at high SNR as well as low SNR and thereby unifies and extends the results previously available."
"In an adaptive quantizer that has been used for speech encoding, the entire amplitude range expands or contracts by a multiplicative constant after each input sample. The constant Midepends only on the magnitude of the current quantizer output. Assuming independent identically distributed input samples, we show that the sequence of quantizer ranges is a stochastically stable process. Furthermore, we derive a key design equation,\\Sigma p_{i}xlogM_{i} = O, wherep_{i}(x)is the probability that an input sample is in theith magnitude interval when the ratio of quantizer range to rms signal level isx. A designer may specifyxand solve this equation for multipliers that provide the desired steady-state performance. There are many such sets of multipliers and we show that the adaptation time constant associated with each set decreases as the ratio of the largest multiplier to the smallest multiplier is increased. On the other hand, the spread of the steady-state range distribution about the operating point can be made as small as desired by making this ratio sufficiently small. A bound is obtained for the tradeoff between responsiveness to changing input level and steady-state range accuracy."
"A new unitary transform called the slant transform, specifically designed for image coding, has been developed. The transformation possesses a discrete sawtoothlike basis vector which efficiently represents linear brightness variations along an image line. A fast computational algorithm has been found for the transformation. The slant transformation has been utilized in several transform image-coding systems for monochrome and color images. Computer simulation results indicate that good quality coding can be accomplished with about 1 to 2 bits/pixel for monochrome images and 2 to 3 bits/pixel for color images."
"A new model of HF atmospheric radio noise (ARN) that leads to observed probability distributions of noise is briefly described. The new ARN model is then applied to the detection of known signals in the presence of noise to determine optimal receiver structure for ARN. Probabilities of errors for a linear matched filter and nonlinear (-1/log) and inverted(log)^{2}correlator receivers and a phase coherent binary detector are determined and compared. It is shown that the inverted(log)^{2}correlator combined with the linear matched filter is an optimal receiver in the presence of impulsive noise in tropics. The time statistics of burst noise is applied to design of signals for improved reliability."
"Imperfect carrier synchronization causes a performance loss for coherent phase-shift-keyed (PSK) communications. This detection loss is greater for quaternary signaling (QPSK) than for the binary case (BPSK). The use of an offset form of QPSK, also known as double-biphase modulation, is shown to yield a probability of bit error in detection that is equal to the average of the detection performances for BPSK and conventional QPSK. Because of frequency instabilities in communications systems, it is sometimes difficult to obtain carrier synchronization with sufficiently low jitter to preclude significant detection losses. The use of offset QPSK in lieu of conventional QPSK modulation is shown to lower by almost 3 dB the required SNR of the synchronizer phase reference for satisfying a specified value of allowable detection loss."
"This paper considers equalization of the slow fading channel for a serial data transmission application. Linear and decision-feedback adaptive equalization techniques are contrasted. The error propagation effect in decision-feedback equalizers is analyzed by a Markov process model. The error probability magnification is computed for both fixed and fading channels and for both binary and quaternary phase-shift-keying (PSK) transmission. The results show that the error propagation effect is small and in regions of practical error probabilities the decision-feedback equalizer is superior to its linear counterpart. Parameters of a practical decisionfeedback equalizer are estimated and a performance evaluation is performed. The implicit diversity gain is shown to be significant and the intersymbol interference penalty is found to be less than 1 dB. Because the intersymbol interference penalty is small, more complex nonlinear processors such as the Viterbi algorithm cannot be recommended for this application. Time jitter effects for the equalizer are included in a calculation of average error probability."
"The theory of decision-aided carrier tracking loops as developed by Lindsey and Simon is extended to include the effects of intersymbol interference. A major theoretical result is the solution of the Fokker-Planck equation for the probability density function (pdf) of the phase error for a first-order tracking loop. This function is used to average upper and lower bounds on the demodulator error rate so that an estimate of the overall system error rate may be obtained. The modulation technique analyzed is double-sideband-pulse-amplitude pulse-amplitude modulation. Curves are presented which display the threshold performance of the system error rate at low modulation index."
"Jitter suppression in a chain of baseband PCM repeaters is studied. It is shown that a scrambler is very effective for systematic jitter suppression and that beyond 5 stages little additional suppression results. The probability of mark in the scrambler output converges to 0.5, independently of that in the input PCM signal. Experimental results confirm the analysis and show the ability of the scrambler to reduce the systematic jitter. The timing information disappearance of PCM repeatered lines when the scrambler is applied is also discussed."
"The behavior of line concentrators in a data communication system has been analyzed for different channel allocation strategies. The users (terminals) are divided into classes according to their transmission rate requirements. The different bit rate classes (BRC) can be separated by dividing the network into subnets or, alternatively, they can share one concentrator which forms outgoing channels from a common quantity of channels of a basic speed, or by splitting a high speed channel into two or more channels with lower transmission rate. The equations of state and analytical expressions for the time congestion factors have been developed for the different system models. The numerical results show that a joint concentrator arrangement requires less channel capacity than a separated concentrator system for a fixed value of the congestion probability. The results of this investigation may serve as background material for planning future data networks."
"The optimum procedure for locating a sync word periodically inserted in uncoded binary data received over a binary symmetric channel is based on the Hamming or bit distance metric. This concise paper addresses the corresponding frame-sync problem for biorthogonally coded data transmitted over the additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel. For conceptual convenience, thek-bit words from the decoder output are treated as \"super symbols\" from an alphabet of dimension 2k. It is argued that the optimum sync-word search over the decoded data stream is based on a supersymbol distance rule matched to the properties of the biorthogonally coded transmissions over the noisy channel. An optimum frame-sync acquisition algorithm based on this distance rule is formulated, and its performance is investigated. As an example, the performance of this optimum frame-sync algorithm is contrasted analytically with that of a Hamming distance algorithm operating on decoded (32, 6) biorthogonal data, a case of interest to some recent unmanned American space missions."
"Coordinate transformations are derived which render signal designs minimally sensitive to errors in sampling time. This is accomplished by first solving an eigenvalue problem and then by solving a least mean-square or minimax problem."
"In this concise paper, several coding schemes are proposed for transmitting digital information over a cable with dc cutoff. The codes are composed of information digits and balance digits determined by the weight of the former. It is shown that the encoding and decoding circuits are quite simple, and that the dc component of the codes is negligibly small. Furthermore, the lowfrequency components of the spectrum can be made much smaller by changing the balance digit positions. Exploiting the fact that the weight of almost all codes is zero, and using the coding rule presented, block synchronization can be easily obtained and most transmission errors can be detected."
"This paper presents a class of digital transformations which generaten-level sequences having an autocorrelation function which remains nonzero throughout its domain in order to insure a narrow spectrum. In addition, any transformation of the class attains maximum redundancy and can be implemented by a simple one-bit memory stochastic machine. Most importantly, the autocorrelation function is obtained analytically which permits establishing for any odd value ofnthe set of level values which achieve optimum bandwidth compression."
"To obtain wider waveform equalization range and higher synchronization accuracy, we have introduced: 1) a multilevel pilot-pulse equalization system and 2)an in-band in-phase pilot synchronization system into multilevel VSB-conversion PCM-FDM equipment. This equipment is used to transmit digital signals on existing analog lines. 1) Multilevel pilot pulses with a smaller number of levels than the information pulses are inserted into the information pulse train. Due to the larger eye opening of the received pilot pulse, the automatic equalizer can converge and equalize the distortion more quickly and easily. For example, let 2-level pilot pulses be inserted into every 32 16-level information pulses. As long as the eye pattern of the pilot pulse is open, it is possible to allow up to 15 times more distortion in the transmission line. Thus the transmission span can be greatly extended. There are various other advantages in using this pilot pulse, such as dc drift suppression, in-service error rate monitoring, etc. 2) A carrier pilot and a sample timing pilot for phase synchronization are superimposed on the carrier frequency and 1/2 Nyquist rate, respectively, within the transmission signal spectra. Thus no excess bandwidth for pilots is necessary, and the phase error between pilot and signal is smaller. In this case, the phase jitter of regenerated carrier and timing clock caused by the neighboring signal spectra can decrease if the pilots are coupled in the same phase with the neighboring signal. For example, phase jitter of less than 0.5° (which was experimentally 1/10 phase error of the quadrature coupling) could be realized easily, even if the signal-to-pilot ratio is about 20 dB."
"The theory of operation of an equal-gain predetection diversity combiner employing the Granlund technique of utilizing a combination of feedback and feedforward is presented. It is shown that the time delays of the filters and the loop phase shifts uniquely determine the operating frequencies within the system. The random FM at the discriminator output is shown to be a weighted sum of that on the input signals, and an upper limit for additional random FM caused by phase-shift error between the loops is derived. At the combiner output, the noise is found to be the sum of the uncorrelated noise from each input channel while the carrier amplitude of the diversity signal is the sum of the carrier amplitudes of the input signals after being cophased."
"A digital coding technique which interfaces efficiently with composite color signals is clearly desirable for connections formed from a chain of analog and digital transmission links. This paper reviews a number of such techniques, and develops a predictive encoding algorithm, termed chrominance-corrected prediction, which is efficiently matched to the nature of the composite signal, and which avoids the need for prior separation of the signal into luminance and chrominance components. The application of composite predictions to PAL and NTSC signals is discussed, and experimental results are described which indicate that a saving in excess of 2 bits/sample can be achieved over PCM for similar picture quality."
"The signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) performance of a pulse-position-modulation (PPM) receiver is well understood when the input SNR exceeds the threshold, but below it the output SNR deteriorates on account of false pulses due to noise. The calculation of their effect, which determines the threshold, has been considered a difficult problem. However, the use of Rice's 1948 result concerning the rate of occurrence of noise peaks permits a very simple analysis of this effect. Thus, a formula is obtained for the output SNR as a function of the input SNR that is valid somewhat below as well as near and above the threshold. From it the threshold is easily determined, and it is found to be higher than has sometimes been indicated. The paper includes a new, simpler derivation of Rice's result as well as a resolution of the demodulator output into its various com ponents which should also prove useful in other applications."
"In frequency division multiplexing (FDM)-FM transmission systems, unequalized parabolic delay preceding a component with AM-PM conversion can be an important source of intermodulation distortion. This correspondence describes some manifestations of these distortion effects and indicates how the distortion can be reduced with cubic IF amplitude equalizers applied on a mop-up basis."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The design of 60 Mbit/s/180 Mbit/s time-division multiple-access (TDMA) channels for the European Communication Satellite (ECS) system is analyzed and a possible configuration is suggested [1]. The effects of adjacent-channel interference, nonlinear power amplifiers both on the ground and in space, uplink and downlink noise are investigated and results are shown. Methods for carrier recovery are investigated and comparisons made. The complete channel design includes pulse-shaping filters, satellite filters, limiters before each TWT, and a filter after the earth-station TWT to limit the radiated spectrum."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The CEPT Long Term Studies Ad Hoc Working Group was formed in March 1971. Its responsibility is primarily with the period between 10 and 30 years hence. During 1971 and 1972, its activities were mainly for \"Project 20\" (carried out by CEPT for COST). This project had three phases: an assessment of the amount and types of telecommunications services likely to be provided up to 1985 (including new services), an assessment of the technological implications, and an identification of possible areas where cooperative research and development proposals could be formulated. As a result of this work, a short list of 13 topics for possible collaborative research and development studies by administrations was drawn up. Phase 1 of Project 20 had indicated extremely wide variations between administrations in their forecasts for new services. The recent activities of the Working Group have therefore concentrated upon the estimation of long term demand for telecommunications services. A set of studies are in hand (each led by one administration) on the following subjects: the long term growth of telephone service, external factors likely to influence long term demand for telecommunications, possibilities for new telecommunications services arising from technological developments, the application of advanced telecommunications services in the field of education, and the potential of telecommunications as a substitute for face-face-to-face business meetings. Each of these studies is described and discussed."
"Current scientific efforts in the field of digital processing of speech are focused at the aims of improving the efficiency in the present state of the art, and of developing new digital speech communication systems. Therefore, thorough studies on the statistical characteristics of speech signals, speech coding, speech recognition, and speech synthesis are necessary. Recent results and actual trends are reviewed in this paper."
"In a telephone conversation a channel is activated by the voice only 25 percent of the time. It is therefore possible to provide a number ofmconnections with a number ofnchannels, wherenis less thanm. When the number of connections is large,m/n(gain) tends to the inverse of the activity. The interpolation procedures used in overload conditions and the resulting degradations, as well as the typical circuits of a voice interpolation apparatus, are examined. Also, two very highly interesting developments are herein illustrated, the ATIC equipment and a single-channel digital speech interpolation (DSI) developed only for measurement purposes. The results obtained from measurement studies carried out with the aforementioned apparatus have enabled the determination of the criteria which must be followed in the selection of the most suitable interpolation procedures. Besides examining the complexity and the reliability which the DSI equipment calls for, it has been possible to analyze the precise working characteristics under normal operating conditions."
"Modulation can be mathematically interpreted as a special case of two-dimensional convolution. Hence, it is possible to use two-dimensional sampled-data filter techniques for the realization of modulators in modern communication systems. The modulator structures consist of active elements and resistors only, and for that reason they are well adapted to large-scale integration (LSI) circuit design. It is shown that amplitude modulation (AM, OM, SSB, VSB) can be produced by nonrecursive, semirecursive or recursive twodimensional digital filters (also phase modulation for digital modulating signals). From the viewpoint of realization, the semirecursive modulator structures are of predominant interest. Some details are given of a simulated single-sideband data transmitter equipped with such a modulator structure."
"The theory of the frequency down-converters, which use sinusoidally driven exponential junction diode, is reviewed here with the purpose of investigating the effects of the junction Capacitance on the conversion loss. The analysis deals With single-ended mixers, both in theZandYconfigurations. Their performances are compared with those obtained from the same configurations of mixers using a purely resistive (PR) exponential diode, in cases of both short-circuited and open-circuited image frequency. This comparison shows that the junction capacitance modifies strongly the behavior of the single-ended mixer compared tothe case of purely resistive diodes. It is pointed out that, when the junction capacitance may not be neglected, and the image frequency is either open- or short-circuited, good performance can still be achieved from a sinusoidally drivenYmixer. On the contrary, the sinusoidally drivenZmixer, which Operates better than theYmixer when the effect of the junction capacitance may be neglected, is strongly deteriorated, and it becomes worse than theYmixer."
"A survey of recent German research in the field of picture coding is presented. The described coding methods are mainly based on extended differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) techniques. A unified model of a feedback switched quantizer for picture coding is explained. Theoretical results show a 9-dB gain in SNR over that of DPCM. A simple realization is shown. For encoding the 1-MHz videotelephone signals, a two-stage coding system consisting of a two-dimensional DPCM in the first stage and a dot interlaced frame repeating codec in the second stage is described. A DPCM combined with a relevancy detector and runlength coder is used for coding the 5-MHz video signals of a high-resolution videotelephone. A special scanning technique assures compatibility with ordinary videotelephones. Good picture quality is obtained by coding the luminance and chrominance signals of color TV separately with DPCM and switched quantization into a 34 Mbit/s signal."
  "The introduction gives an account of the historical development of telecommunications in Germany (Federal Republic of Germany), the legal status of the Deutsche Bundespost, its relationship with the German telecommunication industry, and the status of the broadcasting organizations. On the basis of the present state of the art, the future trends in switching and transmission as well as in cable and radio engineering are described. Of special weight are the new data and telephone switching systems and the requirements for future broad-band services. Research and development are concentrated on these projects, allowance having to be made for the present state of the networks in the Federal Republic of Germany."
"Contacts in telephone switching systems are used for two basic applications, either for switching functions or control functions, having quite different requirements. So it has been found practical when new gas-protected contacts were being developed by Siemens to have two types of contacts: a highly miniaturized make contact especially for use in crosspoint relays with a lifetime expectancy of about five million operations, and a larger contact for control relays capable of carrying a greater load, and designed as a make or a make-before-break contact which is expected to carry out one order of magnitude more operations. Both contacts are hermetically sealed in metal enclosures filled with an inert gas."
"This paper presents a review of the main telecommunications systems now under development in France. First, it gives the general objectives, the basic options, and the general design of the new electronic switching system E. 1 defined by CNET, with the principal characteristics of the E.10 and E.12 variants, and general planning of studies and development in process in this field. Then a summary of the new transmission systems under development such as digital systems on cables, radio relays, or circular waveguide, as well as analog systems, including submarine and space systems is given. Finally, some considerations are given to the increasing use of information processing for the telecommunication network, and to the development of specialized networks for new kinds of information."
"Mixers driven with RF, biphase-modulated, pseudorandom signals are analyzed. The main properties considered are insertion loss and matching conditions. Application to Doppler radar is discussed."
 "The problems set by the development of the Italian telephone network and particularly by the scheduled introduction of new services (also of a nontelephone type) are surveyed in this paper. The solution of these problems employing analog techniques presents many difficulties and, also, creates obstacles for future developments; therefore Italy is at present oriented towards the extensive use of digital techniques. In this paper the scheduled developmental stages are described for the evolution of the present telephone network, which is founded on an analog basis, towards a telecommunication network set on a digital basis and with an accentuated integration of services."
"9-km waveguides of 70-ram inner diameter (ID) have been inserted from manholes into ducts of polyvinal chloride (PVC). Expansion joints are provided for taking up length variations. Only a slight increase in attenuation was measured for the helix waveguide after the laying works. Phase-shift-keyed (PSK) signals with bit rates of up to 640 Mbit/s have been transmitted via this line. A new approximation method for calculating the attenuation of practical line routes has been developed. Improved design of lined waveguides should, from theory, reduce the H01route and curvature loss to below 1 dB/km. Experimental repeaters work with a double conversion scheme. They have mm-wave branching networks in oversize rectangular waveguide, IMPATT oscillators and p-i-n modulators for two-phase modulation. Printed or folded tape meanderlines serve for delay equalization."
"In this paper we describe a coding strategy for binary duplex channels (BDC's) that essentially matches the performance of a system with two identical binary forward channels using a systematic rate-\\frac{1}{2}convolutional code on each of these channels. In other words, our coding strategy achieves the same effect as would the turning around of the feedback channel."
"A comprehensive United Kingdom program of research and development on guided millimetric waves concentrates its main effort on a 50-mm internal diameter lightweight helix waveguide, but a lightweight dielectric-lined waveguide is also being investigated. A full-scale Post Office/industry field trial over a 14.1-kin route is scheduled for 1975. Problems of mechanical construction of waveguides are discussed, as well as communication systems aspects. Attention is paid to terminal/repeater equipment, band-branching assemblies, transmitter-receiver equipment (using 500-Mbit/s quadrature PSK modulation), regenerators, differential demodulators, and IMPATT diode oscillators. High reliability is also required of high-efficiency solidstate oscillators."
"This paper describes a technique for determining probability distributions of parameters necessary for the design of tropospheric scatter communication links. The method, resulting from earlier studies of scatter propagation and the structure of the troposphere, utilizes information which is easily obtained from routine conventional radiosonde observations. Examples of probability distributions, based on radiosonde measurements from southwestern Norway, are presented and compared with existing experimental distributions."
"To improve the coverage with medium frequency (MF) transmitters, new results of propagation measurements have to be recognized. Experiments were made to draw ground conductivity maps and to evaluate new propagation curves. Further measurements were begun to get information about the propagation with different polarization at MF. Great interest exists in preparing new frequency ranges for practical application. First experiments were made in the 11-12 GHz area to study the influence of terrain and the troposphere on propagation. On a 56-kin beyond line-of-sight path, field strength was recorded over a one-year period and the first results of mobile measurements in terrain were compared with propagation curves."
"The application of certain prototype devices, already realized in the complementary surface acoustic wave (SAW) and magnetostatic wave (MSW) technologies, is examined in the context of analogue and digital microwave communications equipments. The specifications of Gaussian response IF bandpass filters and satellite channel multiplexing filters are detailed in the context of SAW designs. Extensions of SAW filter technology to the construction of IF remodulating modems incorporating frequency modulated oscillators and discriminators are examined. Stable SAW oscillators are also reviewed in the context of lightweight, rugged, spacequalified local oscillator drives. The application of MSW technology to the design of a group delay equalizer for millimetric waveguide long-haul digital communications equipments is surveyed. Finally, the paper addresses the design of fixed and variable delay lines realized in both technologies, and SAW code generators, for application to path-length equalization and test{ng of high data rate microwave radio relay systems, respectively."
"From a cost effectiveness point of view, the shipborne antenna is usually considered the most critical component in a shipborne terminal for maritime satellite communications (MARSAT). For possible use in such a system, a high gain autotrack antenna has been developed. The antenna utilizes a combined electronical and mechanical beam steering realized with two planar phased arrays mounted on a mechanical axis. The antenna system is designed for unmanned operation, utilizing an automatic search-and-track mode. After acquisition of a beacon signal from the satellite, a monopulse track mode keeps the antenna pointing position locked, to the direction of incident beacon signal, irrespective of the motions of the ship. Attention has been paid to multipath effects that may occur, in particular reflections from the surface of the sea. This paper is concerned with the design background and the development of the antenna system."
"To be economically attractive, all-electronic spacedivision multiplex (SDM) networks must have a minimum of wiring and interconnection joints, take maximum advantage of IC-type matrix modules, offer inexpensive control (including checking, fault location and traffic supervision) and still satisfy transmission requirements. A means to meet all these demands is presented. It is based on a special p-n-p-n triode crosspoint featuring negligible crosstalk and signal current losses and a very low level of switching noise. Spurious triggering (rate effect) can be eliminated without any special requirements regarding the slope of any signal or the properties of the p-n-p-n device. When such crosspoints are used in unbalanced networks with single-wire through-switching and common return, the added application of the \"high-low\" principle ensures effective suppression of wiring crosstalk and noise pickup. The resultant signal transfer properties depend practically solely on the interfaces of the network as if these interfaces were directly interconnected. Wiring is minimized by suitable integration of control circuitry into the matrix module and by using the transmission wiring additionally for control without disturbing transmission paths in use. IC modules withn \\times mcrosspoints can be made with onlyn + m + 1terminals for transmission and control in addition to supply terminals."
"This paper attempts to establish a connection between the different factors that influence the structure and procedures of the various store-and-forward systems and their ability to meet user needs."
"The paper describes the concept and subsequently the design of the new Coin Telephone NT 2000 which is suitable for global international direct distance dialing. 1) The NT 2000 can be connected to the switching system like a normal subscriber station, i.e., without additional equipment being required. 2) It can handle several coin denominations; a digital display continuously informs the user of the credit balance. 3) An indirect collection method ensures optimum utilization of the money deposited; remaining credit can be used for an additional call. 4) The telephone is very simple to operate thanks to ergonomic design and easy-to-understand pictogram instructions. The design of the NT 2000 demonstrates the application of stateof-state-of-the-art technologies. 1) Almost the entire information processing section consists of customized MOS circuits. 2) Inserted coins are not tested and sorted mechanically but \"electronically.\" 3) The few mechanical devices still left are very simple to handle. 4) The telephone is modular and, therefore, very simple to maintain and operate. Thanks to its universal design, the NT 2000 can be used in many countries without major modifications."
"A broadcasting antenna has an optimum performance if a constant electric field distribution within the coverage area is obtained. A constant field strength requires a cosecant-shaped vertical and omnidirectional azimuthal pattern. For this purpose the German Federal Post Office has developed the so-called polygonreflector antenna, consisting of six specially shaped reflectors with horn feeds. Using this device the field strength at the edge of the coverage area is increased by 4.5 dB in comparison with a conventional antenna."
"The salient features of a militaryX-band satellite system, which has been planned at SHAPE Technical Centre (STC) to form part of an automatically switched network, is outlined. Satellite post-launch test and system operational requirements such as in-orbit testing, orbit determination and prediction, frequency planning, and system control are discussed. Technical facilities and techniques which have been and are being used at STC to meet these requirements for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Satellite System are described. These include three ground terminals and laboratory, as well as computer models of the entire satellite communications system."
 "Intermodulation distortion in FDM-FM radio-relay systems is investigated from an aspect that appears not to have been analyzed in appropriate depth previously, viz., determining more or less exactly the bandwidth within which intermodulation noise is sensitive to transmission imperfections of the radio channel. To this end an analysis of the distortions of linearly filtered anglemodulated signals is presented with the result that intermodulation noise is governed not by transmission deviations directly, but by \"weighted deviations,\" i.e., convolution of the transmission deviations and the spectral density function of the transmitted anglemodulated signal. Although it is intuitively trivial that the spectral distribution of the angle-modulated signal has direct bearing on intermodulation distortion, no previous paper seems to show this relationship explicitly. Further-by a series expansion of the weighted deviation function with respect to suitably defined orthogonal polynomials-specific weights are attributed to sections of the transmission band. The weights-rolling off beyond some distance from the carrier-indicate the frequency band looked for. Simultaneously, a simple computation method of intermodulation noise power is developed, permitting calculation in terms of groupdelay and differential gain variations caused by transmission deviations alone or together with AM-PM conversion and AM compression."
"The present work gives a proposed method of sampling speech signals with a nonuniform sampling rate according to the magnitude of the slope of the signal, provided that the average sampling rate satisfies Shannon's requirements. With this proposed method, the quality of the reconstructed speech signal is improved. Experimental results have been compared with those obtained mathematically, and satisfactory agreement is indicated."
"A communication system is analyzed in which the transmission power and/or rate are adjusted to the observed state (attenuation) of a slowly fading channel. The optimum control of power and rate with channel attenuation is determined. Some suboptimum control rules are also investigated. The average probability of error is evaluated for various types of adaptive transmission, imposing different constraints on power, rate, and bandwidth. It is shown that rate control is superior to power control and that simultaneous power and rate control further improves the performance. The most effective power and rate control presupposes a high peakpower-average-power ratio and a high peak-rate-peak-rate-average-rate ratio; with no peak power and bandwidth limitation, arbitrary small error probability is attainable for a given power and average rate."
"A class of adaptive schemes for delta modulation is considered whereby the decision about step size is a function of the present and the lastksymbols. Such schemes are studied by computer simulations using speech-like signals through evaluation of SNR. Occasional large overshoots appear in the reconstructed signal after the integrater, and to avoid such events it is proposed to store a few signal samples and decide on the proper bit stream taking into account the adaptive logic. Two quadratic criteria have been tried, and improvements of a few decibels have been established with six stored signal samples and a sampling rate of 48 and 24 kHz. Results indicate that other criteria functions may achieve still higher values of SNR."
"After a short review of the interest in digital switching and network integration, a description of the CITEDIS system organization is given (CITEDIS is a digital exchange now in production), outlining its specific features and possibilities. The industrial aspect of CITEDIS manufacturing and the present manufacturing rate are then given."
"This paper presents function facilities for suppression of telephone lines and associated subscriber equipment. A setup of test combinations can be arranged by technical clerks at the centralized antiinterference station as well as by a field engineer. The present telephone technique is checked directly from the test desk via direct through-connected lines of the supervisory network. In special cases, remote-controlled measuring equipment and test devices are installed. In the new computerized local electronic telephone exchange system (EWSO 1), remote-controlled test circuits are used primarily, but only by means of trunk circuits of the telephone network. The ac voltages, the frequency of which is analog to the measured value, flow to the test desk via a speech channel and digital information via a data channel. Both facts are visual on the test desks panel The tester can use a service computer via a video data terminal and so be enabled to call from a subscriber index important data for testing a telephone connection. A special test unit can be called from subscriber's plant. This line is then partly checked by automatic steps and partly by dialing of recallable steps. Results are sent to a suppressor as a voicefrequency signal."
"Both authors have been involved with the development of special service equipment within the telephone Switching technique of the German Federal Post Office. The article in question reports on the state of automation of special telephone services in West Germany. The description includes systems already in existence and those still in the testing stage and also discusses the possibilities resulting from the introduction of computer-controlled switching systems. Here, special consideration is given to the consequent simplification for the administration and the additional facilities for the subscriber brought about by these special telephone services."
"The state of the art in fully electronic space-division telephone exchanges shows that neither can semiconductor crosspoints directly replace reed relay contacts in Public exchanges, nor can hitherto semiconductor switching networks compete with reed relay switching networks. Though semiconductor crosspoints fulfill all transmission requirements, they are too expensive. Investigations on this field by the authors led to the following results. 1) A semiconductor crosspoint with high breakdown voltage and low on-resistance has been developed. This crosspoint can be connected to a subscriber's line and thus directly replace a reed relay in a public exchange at only slightly higher cost. 2) These crosspoints with high voltage capability can be combined with low cost, low breakdown voltage MOS semiconductor arrays in large-scale integration (LSI) techniques which are isolated from the subscriber lines by transformers to form a fully electronic switching network. 3) A crosspoint free of on-attenuation which can be monolithically integrated to crosspoint arrays has been developed; 4) A thick-film hybrid crosspoint for switching of commercial high-resolution video signals has been developed. The state of the art of optical switching systems shows that switching networks using a laser beam enable the transmission of wideband video signals with comparatively high crosstalk attenuation."
"A purely branched network with decentralized switching using glass fiber channels is discussed. A concise survey is given of the possibilities applying wide-band transmission lines, especially glass fibers, in a communication system, with regard to the integration of services. A purely branched wide-band network with subscribers connected to the lines according to the method of time division multiple access shows some considerable advantages in comparison with conventional systems. A particular system based on this procedure is described Where each subscriber's station has its own control unit instead of a centralized common control. Multiplexing, network synchronization, and the algorithm to set up a connection are explained. It is shown that this system automatically adapts the distribution of low-band transmission channels and wideband channels to the traffic offered."
"PCM transmission and PCM switching cooperate economically in so-called integrated networks (integrated switching and transmission (IST)). Economical and technical aspects are ruling the introduction of IST. Possibilities of introduction were investigated for the various network levels in the Federal Republic of Germany. It was proved that first of all PCM tandem exchanges are required to which up to 5 000 speech circuits can be connected. A PCM switching network of T-S-S-T structure is being developed for such application within the scope of the EWS 1 system."
"The cascading of a discrete Fourier transform processor and a digital polyphase network is shown to reduce the computation rate in frequency multiplexing-demultiplexing systems to a value close to minimum. Implementation advantages of that technique are pointed out. The highest efficiency is achieved when the number of channels is close to a power of 2, which is demonstrated by the 60-channel frequency-division-multiplexing (FDM)-2 × 30-channel time-division-multiplexing (TDM) transmultiplexer; a rough estimate of the computation rate is carried out in a practical case and appears to be quite within reach of the present technological capabilities. Significant cost advantage over equivalent analog equipment is expected. A digital version of the 12-channel FDM system using the same technique is also considered."
"Two main classes of receivers for data modems using linear modulation systems over time-dispersive channels have been investigated by many authors for both theoretical and practical purposes, 1) structure-constrained linear receivers, such as zeroforcing and mean-square-error tapped-delay-line equalizers, and 2) nonlinear receivers, such as decision-feedback equalizers and maximum likelihood sequence estimators. In this paper a linear receiver that turns out to be practical and optimum in the mean-square sense is analyzed in detail, and some interesting features of this receiver are stressed; for instance, it is shown that in the absence of noise it becomes a zero-forcing equalizer, provided that stability can be achieved. A comprehensive set of results is also presented, showing that conventional tapped-delay-line equalizers perform very close to the optimum."
"Telephone subscribers require a service which is reliable and offers a wide range of facilities. System design is of vital importance in determining the ability of an administration to meet these requirements economically, and processor controlled exchanges can be designed to provide the necessary qualities of reliability and flexibility. This paper describes in outline the operation of the TXE4 system, and shows how it incorporates features which will enable an administration both to meet its present commitments and to look ahead to providing an enhanced service in the future."
"Optimization in the mean-square sense of a transmitter and receiver filter for a time-discrete pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) system is considered, assuming a situation of realizable filters. This means a general departure from the common matched filter-periodic filter receiver structure. The minimization is carried out with respect to both intersymbol interference and noise, assuming that both transmitter and receiver filters consist of a limited number of basic filters. It is shown that, in general, few basic filters need to be used and that, in general, it is inefficient to use a matched filter and equalizer as a receiver if the transmitter filter is not optimized."
"The radio relay system Pharaon Urbain has been conceived to realize the interconnection between switching and transit centers in urban areas. The first practical use of this system is planned in the urban zone of Paris, using the Maine-Montparnasse tower as a nodal point. This paper describes the system conception and the equipment of this first French urban radio relay system."
"An analysis is presented of the performance of phaselocked timing extraction circuits for baseband pulse code transmission. The phase error of the extracted timing wave is influenced by the properties of three essential stages in signal processing: prefiltering, nonlinear treatment, and narrow-band filtering. The analysis enables us to calculate quantitatively the quasi-static and the dynamic part of the phase error for arbitrary but specified types of signal processing. This is more than can be done with existing theory in the case of resonant-type timing extraction circuits. Examples are given for practical cases, and conditions for optimum performance are derived. Furthermore, the behavior of such phase-locked circuits in a chain of repeaters is investigated, and in particular, the propagation law for jitter. Byrne's model, as used for resonant-type timing extraction circuits, therefore is generalized. It is shown analytically and experimentally that by proper implementation of the timing extraction circuit, considerable improvement can be obtained as compared with resonant-type circuits."
 "This paper describes an electronic system for synchronizing LW and MW broadcast transmitters operating in a phase synchronous network. In the introductory section, the stage of synchronous broadcasting is briefly discussed. Following sections present a block diagram of the system, point out some of its characteristics, and give basic differential equations and some other useful formulas charactizing the behavior of the system. System responses to a frequency step of the local oscillator and to a phase step of the received signal are given. Finally, some experiments with the system employed as an exciter of a MW transmitter being synchronized by the Czechoslovak and Swiss national frequency standards are described. The experiments also illustrate the effects of ionospheric phase anomalies and other limitations to the accuracy of the phase control."
"A brief review of Swiss PTT history shows that a number of switching systems have been introduced over the years. This problem of inhomogeneity shall be overcome in the future by a unique all digital PCM telephone network currently being developed which will be introduced gradually in the 1980's. Transmission systems will use more minicoaxial cables for carrier-as well as PCM-systems. A special PCM transmission system network which will reach the major cities will provide data transmission service for channels up to 48/64 kbit/s. This early data network shall be combined later with the PCM telephone network."
"A survey of the history and the development of laser communication technology in Germany is given. Fibers, lasers, diodes, and repeaters are treated."
"The conditions for circuit integration with anodetriggered Gunn devices and Schottky-gate controlled Gunn devices on epitaxial GaAs layers are examined. Thin epitaxial layers with homogeneous mobility and carrier-concentration profiles perpendicular to the surface were grown from the liquid phase. The dimensions of the device producing a relative current drop of 40 percent with minimum power consumption are determined from the limits of the carrier-concentration-length and carrier-concentration-thickness products assuming simple heat sinking. A maximum pulse rate of 5 Gbit/s can be estimated for a logic stage consisting of Gunn device of minimum power consumption, load resistor, and microstrip lines connecting to two succeeding stages. The calculated data are compared to measurements taken on logic circuits with Gunn devices."
"Communications research in Sweden covers the following subjects: digital PAM, equalization of data channels, digital line links, modulation and transmission analysis, signal measurements and detection, time variable and nonlinear filters, group codes, source approximation, sequential decoding, and shift register sequences."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "An iterative algorithm is presented for finding the optimal feedback controller for a linear jump parameter System with state-dependent transition probabilities. Conditions guaranteeing convergence are provided, and an example illustrates the application of the algorithm."
"A unified analytic approach is presented for the design of adaptive sampling control law in sampled-data systems. This is accomplished by introducing an objective function which measures the performance of the sampler over each sampling interval, and then minimize it to obtain the sampling control law. A total of six different control laws, which are functions of the sampled function, are derived from the generalized objective function by selecting different weighting coefficients. More than half of these control laws are identical to existing results. Similar control laws as functions of the system output can be derived as well. Also included are some experimental results on the performances of four representative control laws in a second-order system subject to step disturbance."
"Luenberger's observer is considered as an alternate to the Kalman filter for obtaining state estimates in linear discrete-time stochastic systems. An interesting new solution to the problem of constructing optimal and suboptimal reduced-order observers is presented. The solution contains as special cases both Kalman's optimal filter and the optimal minimal-order observer of Leondes and Novak. Also, the Tse and Athans observer is obtained as a special case of the reduced-order observer solution."
"We give an algorithm for solving the Padé approximation problem for matrix sequences over an arbitrary field. The algorithm is a multivariate version of one first proposed by Berlekamp and Massey in a coding theory context, the extension being obtained using matrix-fraction descriptions of multivariable systems. The algorithm is recursive and seems to have some computational advantages. Furthermore, our results are in a form that permits easy determination of state-space models from the transfer functions, solving what is called the partial realization problem. Our algorithm also shows how to obtain a characterization of the invariants of this problem."
"A technique is presented by which one can apply deterministic optimization techniques, for example, the maximum principle of Pontryagin, to stochastic optimal control problems formulated around linear systems with Gaussian noises and general cost criteria. Using this technique, the stochastic nature of the problem is suppressed but for two expectation operations, the optimization being deterministic. The use of the technique in treating problems with quadratic and nonquadratic costs is illustrated."
"For a process which may not obey a stochastic linear difference equation (SDE) excited by white noise (i.e., ARMA equation), we will develop an SDE of prespecified order (n,m), excited by an \"approximate white\" noise. (The sense of approximation will be made precise in the text.) The corresponding representation is called the partially whitened representation (PWR) of order (n,m) for the process. A recursive method of parameter estimation is presented, and the accuracy of the estimates will be determined by analytical and simulation methods. The algorithm will asymptotically converge to the vector of coefficients of the ARMA (n,m) equation for the process, provided the process obeys such an equation. Otherwise, the algorithm will converge to the vector of coefficients of the PWR of order (n,m) for the process."
"A method is shown which allows to compute the eigenvalues of anmn-dimensional square matrixFfrom the eigenvalues of ann-dimensional matrixA, if the m2submatrices ofFare describable by convergent power series ofA. As an illustration, matrices arising in a multivariable feedback control system are considered."
"The subject of this paper is the application of stochastic control theory to resource allocation under uncertainty. In these problems it is assumed that the results of a given allocation of resources are not known with certainty, but that a limited number of experiments can be performed to reduce the uncertainty. The problem is to develop a policy for performing experiments and allocating resources on the basis of the outcome of the experiments such that a performance index is optimized. The problem is first analyzed using the basic stochastic dynamic programming approach. A computationally practical algorithm for obtaining an approximate solution is then developed. This algorithm preserves the \"closed-loop\" feature of the dynamic programming solution in that the resulting decision policy depends both on the results of past experiments and on the statistics of the outcomes of future experiments. In other words, the present decision takes into account the value of future information. The concepts are discussed in the context of the general problem of allocating resources to repair machines where it is possible to perform a limited number of diagnostic experiments to learn more about potential failures. Illustrative numerical results are given."
"Beam position transients in self-aligning beam waveguides are studied. The control system senses the beam position, rn, at each lens and introduces a corrective termC_{n-1}to the transverse position of the preceding lens. The Laplace transform of the beam position at thenth lens, for the case of a general control functionH(s), relating rnandC_{n-1}, is found. The special case of a confocal guide, where the control function is an integrator with gainH(s) = g/s, results in a time dependence of the beam positions at the lenses, equal to the product of a decaying exponential and Laguerre polynomials. The case where the control functionH(s)represents a second-order system has been simulated on a digital computer. The results show that overshoot can be controlled by increasing the damping term inH(s)."
"The need often arises in dealing with sampled control mechanisms to transform physical system models intoZ- domain representations. The technique discussed applies a dated, but powerful, matrix technique to form an effective algorithm for performing this transformation by computer."
"Both the stochastic ε-controllability and the stochastic controllability with probability one are first defined. Second, by using a stochastic Lyapunov-like approach, several theorems are developed which give sufficient conditions for the stochastic controllability defined for an important class of nonlinear stochastic systems. A theorem of stochastic uncontrollability is also presented, giving sufficient conditions for stochastic uncontrollability for a class of nonlinear systems. Finally, the relation between the deterministic controllability and the stochastic one is comparatively discussed."
"The time-optimal switching functions for certain plants can involve fractional powers of functions of the state coordinates. A technique is given for obtaining equivalent switching functions which do not contain fractional powers, and are thus simpler to generate, especially in digital simulation studies."
"In this note a method is presented for inverting ann \\times nmatrixMwith complex elements. The approach consists in inverting a2n \\times 2nmatrix with only real elements."
"In this correspondence, a class of nonlinear stochastic systems with controls using only partial information about the current state is considered. It is shown that the time optimal control law is of bang-bang type and that it can be computed by solving a two-point boundary value problem (TPBVP) involving systems of nonlinear integro-partial differential equations."
"The production of the Itocirc; and Stratonovich solutions of a stochastic differential equation by various numerical integration procedures are discussed and questions of accuracy are explored. The relevant features of stochastic calculus theory are summarized."
"The design of linear regulators, optimal with respect to a time-multiplied quadratic performance index, is considered. Since it is not possible to minimize the normal form of the index with constant feedback gains, a suitably modified index is used and a design which is optimal in an average sense is obtained."
"Weighted residual methods (WRM) afford a viable approach to the numerical solution of differential equations. Application of WRM results in the transformation of differential equations into systems of algebraic equations in the modal coefficients. This suggests that WRM can be used as a tool for reducing optimal control problems to mathematical programming problems. Thereby, the optimal control problem is replaced by the minimization of a cost function of static coefficients subject to algebraic constraints. The motivation for this approach lies in the profusion of sophisticated computational algorithms and digital computer codes for the solution of mathematical programming problems. In this note the solution of optimal control problems as mathematical programming problems via WRM is illustrated. The example presented indicates that reasonable accuracy is obtained for modest computational effort. While the simplest types of modes-polynomials and piecewise constants-are employed in this note, the ideas delineated can be applied in conjunction with cubic splines for the generation of computational algorithms of enhanced efficiency."
"Computational difficulty can be significantly reduced when optimal control and estimation problems are formulated in well-chosen coordinate systems. It is shown that every LQG (linear-quadratic-Gaussian) problem can be formulated in coordinates such that principal parts of the solution are either well-posed or ill-posed for numerical solution."
"Consider optimal filtering for a linear, discrete-time, dynamical system with scaler state xkand observation variance nk1at time tk. Then the error varianceP(k|j)corresponding to the minimum-variance estimate of xkgiven the observations through tj,k \\geq j, is a convex function of (n1. . .,nj) on the nonnegative orthant of Ri."
"This note contains an extension of a theorem by Rosenbrock concerning the factorization of det (I & FG) whenFis not necessarily diagonal."
"The purpose of this note is to report on various existence conditions found in connection with the problem of assigning the eigenvalues of a realnth-order matrix constrained by the specification of certain zero entries. This problem finds applications in many areas, but it was originally motivated by attempts to obtain desired responses from annth-order dynamic system governed by a set of linear homogeneous differential equations of the form\\dot{x} = AxwhereAis the constant real system matrix to be found."
"A procedure for the selection of a nonlinear feedback law has been suggested by Thau as a part of his study on the inverse optimal control problem of nonlinear systems. In this note we suggest an alternative feedback law which turns out to be better, in the sense that the transient response improved and at the same time the control energy requirement is reduced."
"The new result presented is a conjugate point condition for an optimal control problem in which there is a constant delay in the state vector. The proof is outlined, and the solution method and a differential game application are discussed."
"This correspondence presents the method for solution of the parameter estimation problem in an entirely sequential fashion. In this procedure each measurement is processed as it is received, without regard to whether it and the prior measurements have established a minimal observable data set, or without the assumption a priori of a covariance matrix in the manner of the Kalman filter. During the period prior to the establishment of the minimal data set the estimate maintains the character of the pseudo-inverse constraint, that of minimum norm. In addition at each measurement, a parameter is available for deciding whether this measurement has increased the observability of the system."
"An exponential function of a Gauss-Markov process is used here as an example to show the nonexistence of a continuous joint max-likelihood smoothing estimate over the intervalT \\doteq"
"Novel smoother structures are introduced for the optimal fixed-lag smoothing of continuous-time signals in noise. The smoothers have the very desirable property that they are simultaneously realizable, stable in the sense of Lyapunov, and optimal. This is in contrast to those proposed to date which are either optimal and realizable but unstable, realizable and stable but suboptimal, or optimal and stable but unrealizable."
"In this correspondence, a sufficient condition for an inverse system of a linear autonomous differential-delay system to exist is given. An algorithm for realizing the inverse system is described. Also, a sufficient condition for the inverse system to be controllable is presented."
  "Exact models are derived for the horizontal line scan of monochromatic pictorial images whose light intensity at each point can be represented by a class of two-dimensional homogeneous random fields. Recursive restoration schemes are presented for images of this type whose degradation can be represented by additive white noise."
"A result due to Erugin is combined with Zubov's theorem in obtaining a numerical algorithm for constructing segments of the asympotic stability domain of two-dimensional systems. A requisite of the algorithm is that one point of the segment under construction be known a priori. Two examples picked arbitrarily are given to illustrate the technique."
"A quantized control problem is formulated and a separable programming algorithm is used to compute the optimal control. A third-order example demonstrates the results."
"A bounded perturbation of the discrete dynamic programming functional equation arising from the Bolza problem yields a bounded change in its solution. This stability property encourages the development of approximation techniques for solving such equations. One such technique, involving the backward solution of an approximate functional equation as a prediction step followed by a forward reconstruction using true equations as a correction step, is then discussed. The errors arising out of such an approximation procedure are bounded. Numerical results are given, illustrating applicability to the optimal control of time-lag control processes."
"Davidon's second method [1] is extended to optimal control. It is considerably faster and requires less data storage than a comparable extension of Fletcher and Powell's method. An example is given showing its superiority to four other gradient-based methods."
"In the above correspondence, Sridhar and Lindorff have provided an alternate proof of Davison's theorem [1] on pole assignment using output feedback. The purpose of this note is to demonstrate that the design algorithm proposed by Sridhar and Lindorff does not guarantee the arbitrary placement of any poles, and consequently, their alternate proof is invalid."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theoretically interesting and computationally attractive solution of the discrete algebraic Riccati equation is presented. The solution is based on Luenberger's canonical representation of controllable multivariable systems and a result due to Vaughan whereby the solution is written in terms of the eigenvectors of a corresponding Hamiltonian matrix. Concise expressions for these eigenvectors are developed in terms of a much simpler reduced Hamiltonian system."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
    "A simple method for finding the inverse Vandermonde matrix is presented. The technique involves determination of the partial fraction expansion of rational functions. Only synthetic division and longhand division are required, which make the process very suitable for hand calculation. Alternatively, simple recurrent relations are also developed for computer use."
"This paper considers stochastic problems in team theory. In particular, the linearity of the optimal control laws for the one-step delay linear quadratic Gaussian (LQG) stochastic control problem is established, and explicit formulae are presented. In addition, the control sharing, nonstatic, nonclassical LQG problem is solved."
"A new canonical form for an adaptive observer is presented which estimates the state and identifies the parameters of an unknownnth order linear time-invariant system. This is the simplest adaptive observer presented so far in the literature. The adaptive scheme is shown to be globally asymptotically stable, thus guaranteeing the convergence of the identification process."
"In pole assignment for multi-input systems, the constant gain feedback control to achieve desired closed-loop poles is not unique. This design freedom is used to minimize a given performance index, thus combining the pole-placement and optimal control design techniques."
"A segmented algorithm for solving state constrained optimal control problems is presented. Its main feature is that it may be implemented on an array of digital computers. Such an implementation exhibits two attractive properties. The first one is that the computational time is reduced due to the parallelism of computations achieved. The second property is that a graceful degradation of performance is realized, i.e., the array produces approximate solutions in the presence of hardware faults."
"The problem of characterizing optimal controls for a class of distributed parameter systems is considered. The system dynamics are characterized mathematically by a finite number of coupled partial differential equations involving first-order time and space derivatives of the state variables. Boundary conditions on the state are in the form of a finite number of algebraic relations between the state and boundary control variables. Multiple distributed controls extending over the entire spatial region occupied by the system are also included. The performance index is an integral over the spatial domain of penalty functions on the terminal state and on the distributed state and controls. Under certain differentiability and well-posedness assumptions, variational methods are used to derive first- and second-order necessary conditions for a control which minimizes the performance index. Of particular interest are conditions on the boundary value of the costate and on the optimal boundary controls."
"The stochastic linear regulator problem is extended to cover the case of non-Gaussian white noise. Using martingale theory, it is proved that the linear optimal regulator is also optimal for non-Gaussian white noise."
"A connection between Padé approximants and characteristic polynomial of a matrix with complex, in general, elements is established. A system of homogeneous, first-order ordinary differential equations is associated with the given matrix and after Laplace transform the individual transformed components are shown to be special Padé approximants."
"A reduction in computational requirements is often posed as the rationale for the use of reduced-order state estimators. That assertion is explored for a reduced-order, stagewise-optimal, Luenberger observer. It is found that under certain conditions (but not in general) a significant reduction can indeed be obtained."
"This note provides explicit expressions for the optimal control and the minimum cost for the standard least-squares tracking and smoothing problems. A single approach provides these solutions in a unified fashion."
"A major difficulty in applying Lyapunov theory to the problem of specifying transient stability regions ofn-machine power systems is computational complexity, which increases markedly withn. This note outlines a method, requiring only a nominal amount of computation, to determine such regions."
"A model for the air traffic flow between two airports subject to random constraints on the takeoff and landing capacities is set up. For a simple case a dynamic programming algorithm is used to compute the optimal solutions explicitly."
"A modification is suggested to the computational algorithm for inners in [1], [2] in order to lessen the roundoff errors arising in computer calculations taking into consideration fixed structure of sparseness of left triangle of zeros without destroying the inners of original matrix."
"For a single-input linear system, the quadratic cost function\\int\\min{0}\\max{\\infty}x^{T}Qx + \\dot{x}^{T}R\\dot{x}is used to generate optimal control laws which do not feedback the highest derivative present inx. The method is applied to a fourth-order single-input system."
"This correspondence considers the necessary conditions for optimal control of a nonlinear neutral system with general cost function. Using variational techniques, it is shown that the adjoint variable is discontinuous, and furthermore, the form of the discontinuity is characterized."
"A close relationship between penalty functions and duality is shown to exist for a certain class of convex optimal control problems with state and control variable constraints. This relationship can be used to generate upper and lower bounds on the value of the solution to a control problem of the prescribed class."
"The multimodal region for a nonlinear feedback system capable of exhibiting jump resonance can be modified by preceding the basic system with a linear filter. It is shown that, under these circumstances, a variety of types of jump resonance are obtainable, depending upon the class of the filter that is used."
"It is found for a class of linear-quadratic problems that the parameter strategy for the unknown time-varying bounded parameters are found to be independent of the present state. Since the parameter strategy is only a function of time, the feedback gains of the linear-quadratic problem are still easily calculatable functions of time."
"A distributed parameter process with noisy boundary conditions is considered. The noise acting on the system's boundary is either a Gaussian white noise or a Poissonian type process. A Lyapunov type functional is defined on the sample functions of the distributed process, and sufficient conditions, for the ultimate boundedness of this functional, are derived."
"A method given in the above paper is argued and a contradictory example is shown."
 "The externally excited adaptive system (EEAS) is a two-degree-of-freedom feedback system with a nonlinearity which is saturated hard by an external periodic signal. Under certain conditions, the EEAS responds quasilinearly to command and plant disturbance signals, permitting the development of a quantitative synthesis theory for satisfying system tolerances despite large plant uncertainty. The great advantage of the EEAS is its zero sensitivity to plant gain variations, a property it shares with the self-oscillating adaptive system (SOAS). The EEAS is, however, more flexible than the SOAS in satisfying the quasilinearity constraints. The essential difference is that in the EEAS the loop transmission bandwidth is not rigorously tied to the \"carrier\" signal, as it is in the SOAS. There is a class of problems for which the EEAS is superior to the purely linear system, which in turn is superior to the SOAS. The superiority of the EEAS over the SOAS is especially marked in the case of significant plant disturbances, which generally vitiate a SOAS design."
 "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In the above mentioned paper the concepts of optimal observer-estimators and optimal minimal-order observer-estimators for discrete systems are developed. In this correspondence it is observed that the latter requires significantly greater computational effort than the former. The question is: from a practical implementation point of view, why bother with the \"minimal-order\" observer-estimator?"
"The question of achieving a variety of specific design goals (e.g., arbitrary pole placement, decoupling, and exact model matching) for linear multivariable systems subjected to unknown step disturbances on the entire internal state and output is constructively resolved via a synthesis procedure which simultaneously combines integral feedforward compensation with asymptotic state estimation. The technique relies on the ability to express the desired closed-loop transfer matrix of the compensated system as the product of the open-loop transfer matrix and any proper rational transfer matrix, assuming the given system has no zeros at the origin and a stable closed-loop design is sought. The method employs some recent results involving the differential operator approach to multivariable system analysis and synthesis, and the treatment is confined almost exclusively to the frequency domain."
"Algorithms are presented for obtaining several canonical forms for multi-input, multi-output time-invariant linear systems. Only elementary row and column operations on the state matrixA, the input matrixB, and the output matrixCare used, in contrast to earlier methods, most of which require the explicit computation and inversion of similarity transformation matrices."
"Improved signal synthesis techniques are developed for nonlinear, time-varying systems having unspecified plant parameters lying within known bounds. Output system errors satisfy a Lyapunov stability theorem which guarantees that they approach zero asymptotically. Improved results are derived first by using a quadratic-form Lyapunov function of system errors and then by using expanded Lyapunov functions involving derivatives of system errors to yield smoother input adaptive signals for a broad class of systems. An example is provided to illustrate the indicated design improvements."
"Ho's Algorithm generates exact realizations of finite-dimensional linear systems, given exact data. We discuss here a variant of the algorithm that generates approximate realizations of specified dimension from approximate data."
"The sampled frequency response of a continuous system can be represented by an infinite series which is truncated for practical application. In utilizing the truncated series, it is desirable to retain the fewest number of terms and still keep the error between the actual sampled frequency response and the approximated sampled frequency response below a specified tolerance. In this correspondence a technique is presented for calculating an upper bound on the amount of this error, and serendipituously, an error estimating procedure is provided."
"Two recent sequential algorithms due to Friedland and Lin-Sage for bias estimation are shown to be essentially identical."
"The present note is about the problem of representing a nonphysically realizable system in terms of the sum of a physically realizable system plus a purely anticipative system. It illustrates by means of a simple example some of the difficulties which are associated with this decomposition problem."
"An example is given to show that even if the eigenvalues of the systemA-matrixA(t)of a linear time-varying system\\dot{x}(t) = A(t)x(t)are independent oftand some of them have positive real parts, the system is asymptotically stable."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Recently Bittanti et al. [1] analyzed the problem of establishing whether the optimal constant control of a system can be improved by cycling. Here the question is raised how their results could be used to approach the optimal periodic operation as closely as possible. A partial answer may be provided by classical perturbation techniques."
"For linear systems with quadratic performance indices, it is shown that the optimal output feedback gains can be computed using gradient techniques. Unlike previous algorithms, this approach avoids the solution of nonlinear matrix equations while appearing to ensure convergence. Computational results for a fourth-order system are presented."
 "The purpose of this note is to point out that the assumptions of two theorems of Kleinman concerning Newton's method for the Riccati equation can be weakened."
"The Routh-Hurwitz criterion is a very important topic in control theory. It can be used to check stability of control systems. It is suggested in many texts [1]-[10] that it can also be used to compute the number of right- and left-half plane roots. It is demonstrated in this correspondence that this is not always possible."
"Decentralized regulation for a string of coupled linear systems is studied. Available to each controller is localized information, represented by linear functions of the state. Necessary conditions for the optimal time-invarient linear regulators are established. The theory can be applied for designing simple on-board computers for regulating a string of moving vehicles."
"The following general time-optimal design problem is studied: determine a real constant square matrix,A, subject to specified constraints, to minimize the transit time between specified endpoints while satisfying the vector differential equation\\dot{x}(t) = Ax(t). Two specific kinds of constraints onAare considered: 1) where the individual elements ofAare free but the matrix as a whole must satisfyQ(A) \\leq \\hat{Q}whereQ(A)is a specified homogeneous function of the elements ofAand\\hat{Q}is a given upper bound and 2) where the elements ofAare individually bounded. Theoretical results show that both problems can be solved by first solving a related minimum cost fixed time problem. The latter problem is solved iteratively by using the generalized Newton-Raphson method for two point boundary value problems to provide a set of linear equations at each iteration. The cost functionQis then minimized subject to these equations using appropriate optimization techniques."
"This note considers two methods of obtaining reduced order problems (by singular perturbations) in optimal control theory and shows that both methods lead to the same set of equations."
"A filter is derived for interconnected dynamical systems in which the information pattern is decentralized. Qualitative aspects of the filter's performance are given in terms of an observability condition, and quantitative performance data are generated for the case of state estimation in a two-area power system."
"The problem of optimal estimation (filtering and fixed-lag smoothing) for linear continuous time systems containing multiple time delays can be considerably simplified in the absence of state excitation noise. The optimal filter and fixed-lag smoother can be computed forward in time and are asymptotically stable."
"In the application of the discrete Kalman filter, it occasionally happens that one of the noise covariance matrices is known except for a scalar multiplier. Algorithms are derived to estimate such a parameter using the covariance-matching technique."
"This note presents a one-step irreducible realization (A,B,C,D) from a rational matrixG(s)with multiple poles. The introduction of a generalized-Jordan-formAmakes it possible to consider additional network synthesis constraints in determiningCcolumn by column andBrow by row. Only Gauss-Jordan reduction is needed. One example is given for illustration."
"Sain and Massey [1] have obtained necessary and sufficient conditions for the invertibility of continuous and discrete time linear systems and have also found bounds for what they termed the \"inherent integration\" (continuous time) or the \"inherent delay\" (discrete time) of an invertible linear system. In this note, we tighten these bounds by modifying an argument used to prove the Sain-Massey result."
"It is shown that a Riccati equation of particular structure which arises in a number of singular optimal estimation and control processes can be reduced in order. This fact leads directly to a procedure for the design of a class of minimal order observers, the structure of which can be interpreted as the limiting form of appropriate Kalman estimators with vanishing observation noise."
"Uncontrollability of the tandem connection and of the feedback connection of two linear time-invariant multivariable systems, each having the Jordan canonical form representation, is considered. Sufficient conditions for uncontrollability of those systems are given."
"This correspondence develops sufficient conditions for decoupling of anr-inputm-output multivariable control system via control law with a rectangular feedforward matrix. A synthesis example of the decoupling control system is given and studied."
"In ordinary differential systems, it has been shown [4] recently that Boltyanskii's necessary conditions for optimal parameter selection [3, p. 263] can be easily derived from Gamkrelidze's general maximum principle [2]. In this note, necessary conditions on optimal parameter selection problem of parabolic differential systems are reported by using a recent result of Zolezzi [1]. The result is illustrated by an example."
"The minimum variance estimator algorithm is derived for a class of linear continuous systems modulated by a multivalued jump Markov process. The approach adopted in this paper is as follows. First, we express the jump Markov process in terms of its initial value, the jump times and the values taken by the jump process after the jump, and then we apply the Bayes' rule and the general likelihood-ratio formula to obtain the a posteriori probability distribution of the jump process. The minimum variance estimate is given in terms of the a posteriori probability distribution of the jump process and the Kalman-filter estimates corresponding to the admissible values of the jump process. Simulation studies are also carried out to illustrate the behavior of the optimal estimator presented here."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simple macroscopic freeway traffic corridor model is formulated for the purpose of developing optimal allocations of freeway on-ramp metering volumes. The model represents a freeway and a single parallel \"equivalent surface street,\" both unidirectional, which are interconnected by freeway on-ramps. Since a choice of routes is included in the problem formulation, the fairly standard methodology of \"traffic assignment\" is employed to predict how drivers will react to the on-ramp metering. An explicit traffic assignment algorithm which includes ramp queueing is developed. Both the corridor and traffic assignment models are restricted to stationary traffic patterns. Two specific corridor performance criteria, freeway travel rate and total travel-time rate, are formulated in terms of the model variables. Then the problem of choosing ramp metering volumes to optimize a performance criterion is posed. A computationally efficient suboptimal dynamic programming scheme is developed and illustrated by an example."
"A frequency-domain positivity condition is derived for linear time-varying operators in2and is used to develop2stability criteria for linear and nonlinear feedback systems. These criteria permit the use of a very general class of operators in2with nonstationary kernels, as multipliers. More specific results are obtained by using a first-order differential operator with a time-varying coefficient as multiplier. Finally, by employing periodic multipliers, improved stability criteria are derived for the nonlinear damped Mathieu equation with a forcing function."
"This paper considers the design of optimal inputs for identifying parameters in linear dynamic systems. The criterion used for optimization is the sensitivity of the system output to the unknown parameters as expressed by the weighted trace of the Fisher information matrix. It is shown that the optimal energy constrained input is an eigenfunction of a positive self-adjoint operator corresponding to its largest eigenvalue. Several different representations of the optimal input and several methods for its numerical computation are considered. The results are extended to systems with process noise, and the relationship to other criteria for input design are brought out. Three analytical examples are solved in closed form which show that the optimal input is a sum of sine and cosine functions at appropriate frequencies. Optimal elevator deflections for identifying the short period parameters of C-8 aircraft are computed numerically and compared with the doublet input currently in use."
"In this paper some generalizations of the Lyapunov stability theory made by Yoshizawa and LaSalle are used to determine the asymptotic behavior of the motion relative to a three axis limit cycle of an inertially-oriented space station acted on by gravity gradient and aerodynamic torques and controlled by reaction jet thrusters. Although the uncontrolled system is unstable and the controller is bounded, it is shown that any trajectory with initial condition in a bounded setGwill approach a subsetE \\subset G. It is shown that the subsetEis small enough andGlarge enough to be practical for the particular spacecraft application."
"In this paper, we examine the computational aspects of a certain class of discrete-time optimal control problems. We propose and analyze two partial conjugate gradient algorithms which operate in cycles ofs+1conjugate gradient steps (s \\leq n= state space dimension). The algorithms are motivated by the special form of the Hessian matrix of the cost functional. The first algorithm exhibits a linear convergence rate and offers some advantages over steepest descent in certain cases such as when the system is unstable. The second algorithm requires second-order information with respect to the control variables at the beginning of each cycle and exhibitss+1- step superlinear convergence rate. Furthermore, it solves a linear-quadratic problem ins+1steps as compared with them.Nsteps (m= control space dimension,N= number of stages) required by the ordinary conjugate gradient method."
"The new concepts of \"structure\" and \"structural controllability\" for a linear time-invariant control system (described by a pair (A,b)) are defined and studied. The physical justification of these concepts and examples are also given. The graph of a pair (A,b) is also defined. This gives another way of describing the structure of this pair. The property of structural controllability is reduced to a property of the graph of the pair (A,b). To do this, the basic concept of a \"cactus\" and the related concept of a \"precactus\" are introduced. The main result of this paper states that the pair (A,b) is structurally controllable if an only if the graph of (A,b) is \"spanned by a cactus.\" The result is also expressed in a more conventional way, in terms of some properties of the pair (A,b)."
"This paper describes a suboptimal filter applicable to systems which have unknown impulses at unknown instances of time. The minimum variance estimate of the input and the Bayes' decision rule is explained. Computer results indicate the improvement over the standard Kalman filter."
"This paper presents a formulation and solution of a problem in the design of robust controllers. These controllers are realizations of solutions to control problems which remain solutions in the case of arbitrary perturbations in the problem data and the controller parameters. For the particular problem studied here, it is shown that arbitrary perturbations are admissible only in the feedback gains and perturbations in the problem data (system parameters) must be suitably restricted in order for there to exist robust solutions."
"A generalized Lyapunov function for power systems is obtained based on a previous work of the author. It is shown that it includes the different results in the literature and gives larger regions of asymptotic stability."
"A class of differential games with two pursuers versus one evader is investigated for Nash equilibrium solutions. The solutions show that the state space can be partitioned into the following three regions: 1) the evader,E, plays a two-player, nonzero-sum differential game against one of the two pursuers,P, and ignores the other pursuer,Q; 2) the evader plays a two-player, nonzero-sum differential game againstQand ignoresP; and 3) the evader plays against both of the pursuers. A specific example is examined to illustrate how the theory can be applied."
"The discrete stochastic linear servomechanism problem is reformulated to include the costs of observations. The optimal control solution to this modified problem is identical to that of the standard servomechanism problem, but the optimal observations policy requires the solution of a TPBVP which may be computed a priori. The problem is further extended to include the class of nonlinear systems suggested by dynamic populations. The solution presented for the nonlinear problem is an iterative solution involving the second-order conditional-mean estimation and prediction algorithms and the linear control algorithms which are applied about the linearized predicted trajectories. A nonlinear example problem is included."
"A simple frequency domain approach is proposed for approximate solution of a transcendental equation encountered in Brockett's variational technique for the stability study of a second-order nonlinear and/or time-varying system. It is conjectured that the principle on which this approach is based is valid irrespective of system order."
"A procedure is given whereby an analytic solution may sometimes be found for a matrix algebraic equation, such as occurs in deterministic and stochastic optimization problems."
"A constructive proof is given for easily finding constant feedback gains that stabilize a linear, time-invariant, discrete system. The results are directly applicable to initializing certain iterative methods that find steady-state gains for the discrete optimal regulator."
"The fact that all of the defined zeros of a proper linear multivariable system can be cancelled by an appropiate linear state variable feedback control law is constructively established."
"In this correspondence we discuss the relation between singularity of information matrix and assumed order of pulse transfer function for estimating the parameters of transfer function under Gaussian excitation. By considering simple examples, it is shown that over assuming the order does not always lead to singularity, and that the matrix can in some cases become singular with the order assumed being correct. A generalization of the result is conjectured."
"This correspondence considers the class of estimation applications in which a choice of measurement devices is possible. A cost is associated with each measurement device. An optimization procedure is presented which minimizes the measurement cost while maximizing estimation accuracy."
"A rather straightforward derivation is presented for the central relation in the Ho algorithm for minimal realization of finite dimensional linear systems."
"The limiting form of the Kalman-Bucy filter as measurement noise tends to zero does not, in general, correspond to the optimal filter derived assuming zero measurement noise. This may be considered to be due to a difference in initial conditions."
"It is shown that the equivalent nonlinearity of the single-valued functiony = g(x), withx = e + d(t), whereeis a low frequency signal andd(t)a high frequency dither, is the characteristic\\bar{y}versusewhere\\bar{y} = \\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty} g(x) w(x - e) dx. Several examples and some general properties of the weighting functionw(x)are given."
"This correspondence presents an algorithm for finding continued fraction inversion by Routh's algorithm. A recursive relation is given to implement the algorithm in a very simple way. This approach requires less computation when compared with the existing techniques. The method is demonstrated by means of a numerical example."
"In this note, it is shown that the double triangularization algorithm for computing the determinants of inners cannot only be adapted to test controllability, observability conditions but also can be used to separate controllable, observable parts, etc., while implementing the algorithm."
"A modification of Jury's procedure for the determination of the distribution of roots of polynomialF(z)with respect to the unit circle is described. Its advantages are simpler numerical manipulations and direct determination of root distribution in the so-called nonsingular cases, while previous methods for examination of singular cases are not subverted."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Certain recently developed fast algorithms for recursive estimation in constant continuous-time linear systems are extended to discrete-time systems. The main feature is the replacement of the Riccati-type difference equation that is generally used for such problems by another set of difference equations that we call of Chandrasekhar-type. The total number of operations in the new algorithm is in general less than with the Riccati-equation based Kalman filter, with significant reductions being obtained in several important special cases. The algorithms are derived via a factorization of increments of the Riccati equation variable, a method that can be extended to nonsymmetric Riccati equations as well."
  "Linear and nonlinear (extended Kalman-Bucy) filters are derived for systems governed by coupled partial and integro-differential equations. The framework used is sufficiently general that filters for 1) lumped parameter systems having multiple time varying or constant time delays, 2) coupled lumped and hyperbolic distributed parameter systems, and 3) lumped parameter systems with functional time delays, evolve as special cases. Although the filtering equations are the final result, the corresponding smoothing equations are developed as well. The performance of the filter is illustrated through application to a well stirred chemical reactor with external heat exchange."
"A stochastic version of the standard nonlinear programming problem is considered. A functionf(x)is observed in the presence of noise, and we seek to minimizef(x)forx \\in C = {x:q^{i}(x) \\leq 0}, whereq^{i}(x)are constraints. Numerous practical examples exist. Algorithms are discussed for selecting a sequence Xnwhich converges wp 1 to a point where a necessary condition for optimality holds. The algorithms use, of course, noise-corrupted observations on thef(x). Numerical results are presented. They indicate that the approach is quite versatile, and can be a useful tool for systematic Monte-Carlo optimization of constrained systems, a much-neglected area. However, many practical problems remain to be resolved, e.g., investigation of efficient one-dimensional search methods and of the tradeoffs between the effort spent per search cycle and the number of search cycles."
"A recently developed decomposition algorithm of Meyer is applied to the problem of the minimum energy transfer of a linear time-invariant system from a given initial state to a compact, convex but otherwise arbitrary target set usingN-state controls. The problem is thus decomposed into a sequence of subproblems which differ from it only in that the target set is a hyperplane. An algorithm for the solution of the subproblem is developed. It has the important property that it converges if and only if a solution exists. The convergence does not depend on the customary \"initial guess.\" When this algorithm is incorporated into the Meyer algorithm, the overall convergence likewise does not depend on an initial guess. This Property is useful for on-line computation. The method of solution also applies to a class of singular problems. As a by-product of the method of solution of the subproblem, an interesting property of the costate variable is obtained."
"Sufficient conditions for the input-output stability (BIBO stability) of time-varying nonlinear multiloop feedback systems are established. The present objective is to analyze large-scale systems in terms of their lower order subsystems (subloops) and in terms of their interconnecting structure. Both time-domain and frequency-domain results are presented. In order to demonstrate the usefulness of the present approach, two specific examples are considered."
"A computer algorithm is described for the optimization of discrete-time pulse frequency modulated systems with state and control constraints. The algorithm, based on a modified maximum principle [1], leads to the solution of a Boolean linear programming problem, for which many computer codes are available commercially. An application to a time-shared sampled-data control system is presented. Numerical examples are given."
"An algorithm is developed for estimating a portion of the state of a linear dynamical system. The dimension of the filter used in the estimation procedure may be considerably smaller than the dimension of a Kalman filter used to estimate the entire state vector. Thus, an on line computational advantage is achieved. The savings may be significant if the dimension of the segment of the state vector which is of interest is much smaller than the dimension of the entire state vector."
"The problem of finding the optimal, constant output feedback matrix for linear time-invariant multivariable systems with quadratic cost is reconsidered. Simple formulae for the gradient matrix are developed and used in a Fletcher-Powell-Davidon algorithm. Computational results are presented."
"For deterministic nonzero-sum differential games, every open-loop Nash strategy set is a closed-loop Nash strategy set. The converse, that the open-loop strategy set generated by a closed-loop Nash strategy set is Nash, is false."
"Computations involved in controlling a system or a decision process are time-consuming in practice. The problem of optimally choosing the estimation and control delays is formulated in the dynamic programming framework and illustrated by examples. Selection of optimal estimation and control algorithms is outlined conceptually."
"A simple proof of a recent result for determining whether the zeros of a real polynomial lie within a sector is first given. Secondly, this result is used in a procedure given for confirming whether or not the zeros of an arbitrary complex polynomial lie in a similar sector."
"It is shown that certain additional entries in theAmatrix of Luenberger's canonical form can be assumed zero once the structural indices are known."
"The problem of computing the optimum control function for a pulse frequency modulated system using a technique based on the modified maximum principle (MMP) is presented. The MMP requires that a certain function denoted byI^{\\astr}(u)be extremized in the process of obtaining the optimum control function. By assuming a specific form for the performance index and in the definition of the state variables, a form forI^{\\astr}(u)was achieved which is much more amenable to computation. A brief description of a computer program, for maximizingI^{\\astr}(u)and thus obtaining the optimum control function, is included."
"A procedure [1] for the design of an observer of reduced order, with arbitrary dynamics, to provide an estimate of a single linear functional of the state vector of a linear system, is extended to the case in which a number of linear functionals are required."
"The feedback eigenvalue control problem of distributed-parameter systems subject to boundary inputs is solved and results are derived for both single-eigenvalue and multi-eigenvalue assignment. An illustrative example is included."
"An algorithm is developed to derive the partial fraction expansion of the ratio of two polynomials. A unified approach using tables is presented in order to solve both single and multiple pole cases."
"A concise derivation of the necessary conditions that must be satisfied by optimal constant limited state feedback gains is given. The approach taken to obtain these conditions is applicable to other limited state feedback controller design problems as well."
"An algebraic method is presented to evaluate periodic conditions for the steady-state responses of state equations with a continuous or piecewise-continuous periodic input. As a result, the analytical and experimental steady-state responses to periodic excitation may be directly obtained."
"This note treats compensation for delay in the design of linear multivariable systems. The state variable feedback technique is assumed as the means for achieving a decoupled design; a digital computer is placed in the feedback loop to perform the control computations, leading to a sampled-data system with delay. A compensation algorithm is devised to account for this delay, using the state transition matrix."
"This correspondence discusses boundary conditions for adjoint variables in problems with state variable inequality constraints. Particular attention is given to inequality terminal constraints. It is shown that it is important to identify whether the boundary of the state space is \"absorbing\" or not. An example is given to show the importance of these considerations in determining optimal trajectories."
"Derivation of suboptimal controllers, via simplified models, implies a knowledge of the relevant aggregation matrices. This note presents a procedure for the evaluation of the aggregation matrix for Davison's model. It is also shown that the resultant feedback system, when the suboptimal control policy is applied, is stable."
"Excitation control of a synchronous generator is discussed. Linear systems theory is used to derive a simple feedback formula."
 "Optimal control and human response theory are combined to develop a computerized, predictive model of the input-output tracking response of the human gunner in an antiaircraft artillery loop. The model includes representations for various human limitations, such as time-delay and randomness, that act to degrade system performance. The model extends earlier work in manual control by considering rapidly varying system dynamics, and arbitrary nonstochastic input disturbances. Model predictions of tracking error covariance are compared with human tracking data from Army conducted experiments that simulated the Vulcan Air Defense System (VADS). The agreements are excellent for both elevation and azimuth axis tracking, over a range of target passes from easy to difficult. The predictions are obtained using a single set of man-model input parameters that are typical of human response limitations. It is concluded that the modeling approach can be used with confidence in a system analysis study of weapons effectiveness."
"This paper considers the estimation problem for linear continuous-time systems with the interrupted observation mechanism which is characterized in terms of the jump Markov process taking on the values of 0 or 1. The minimum variance estimator algorithm is derived. The approach adopted is 1) to express the jump Markov interruption process in terms of the initial value and the jump times instead of its instantaneous values and 2) to regard the initial value and jump times as the unknown system parameter which may be infinite dimensional. Then employing some limiting procedure, Lainiotis' formula is applied to obtain the minimum variance estimator algorithm. The resultant optimal algorithm is infinite dimensional, so that feasible approximate estimator algorithms are presented for the practical implementation. Computer simulation studies are also carried out to demonstrate the feasibility of the approximate estimators."
"For a broad class of nonlinear systems, a connection is established between the input-output property of passivity and a set of constraints on the state equations of the system. These constraints are then interpreted in terms of the stored energy and dissipation of a passive system. Applications are given in two problems of optimal control theory, and a generalized form of the circle criterion is also derived."
"Sufficient conditions are presented for the existence of periodic motions in a class of autonomous, time-invariant, non-linear feedback systems. The conditions can be interpreted as circle type criteria, stated in terms of the frequency response and root locus diagrams for the system's linear part, and in terms of the characteristics of the nonlinearity."
"A distributed parameter system described by the general linear telegraphers equations is considered. A new equivalent network for the distributed system is developed, such that the parameters of this network satisfy stable, initial valued Riccati equations. The identification of system parameters is translated into a network matching problem."
"The expected value of a multiplicative performance criterion, represented by the exponential of a quadratic function of the state and control variables, is minimized subject to a discrete stochastic linear system with additive Gaussian measurement and process noise. This cost function, which is a generalization of the mean quadratic cost criterion, allows a degree of shaping of the probability density function of the quadratic cost criterion. In general, the control law depends upon a gain matrix which operates linearly on the smoothed history of the state vector from the initial to the current time. This gain matrix explicitly includes the covariance of the estimation errors of the entire state history. The separation theorem holds although the certainty equivalence principle does not. Two special cases are of importance. The first occurs when only the terminal state is costed. A feedback control law, linear in the current estimate of the state, results where the feedback gains are functionally dependent upon the error covariance of the current state estimate. The second occurs if all the intermediate states are costed but there is no process noise except for an initial condition uncertainty. A feedback law results which depends not only upon the current dynamical state estimate but also on an additional vector which is path dependent."
"In the identification of linear systems the model may be of lower or higher dimension than the system. The second case which is of particular interest requires a proper formulation of the model equations to guarantee a finite solution of the parameter estimate. Without noise the solution of the parameter vector is, in general, not unique. With noise at the system output its estimate, though biased, is shown to be unique. If a model of higher dimension is used in conjunction with an algorithm for unbiased estimation, the estimate, though finite, may be nonunique. Numerator and denominator factorization should be used to reveal the excess pairs of poles and zeros which cancel. Thus, the structure of the system can be identified along with its parameters."
"We give some sufficient conditions under which the mean-square error of linear least squares (lls) estimates converges to its true steady-state value despite perturbations due to uncertainties in initial conditions, round-off errors in calculation, etc. For state-variable estimators, this property, called initial-condition robustness, is implied by the exponential asymptotic stability of the estimating filter, but this latter property though desirable is of course far from necessary for the more basic (since mean-square error is the ultimate criterion) property of robustness. We present a general sufficient condition for such robustness of lls predictors of stochastic processes. This condition is then specialized to lls estimators for processes described by state-variable models and by autoregressive-moving agerage difference equation models. It is shown that our conditions can establish robustness in cases where previous criteria either fail or are inconclusive."
"Dynamical forms of the optimal nonlinear filter have been available for at least ten years and various types of \"approximations\" have been proposed. Even if valid for short periods of time, errors accumulate, and eventually the meaning of the approximation is (frequently) lost. This paper attempts to understand, conceptually, via a heuristic mathematical argument how the observational information is processed by one particular approximation and exploits these insights to develop a set of engineering principles which, in turn yields an improved filter. The interest is in how useful filters work, and not in which one is preferable in some particular case."
"The state variable feedback design of time invariant linear multivariable systems with piece-wise constant inputs is considered. The formulation of the sampled data problem is given, along with a study of the structural properties of the problem when decoupled by state variable feedback."
"Through appropriate formulation of a step in the factorization algorithm of an elementary paraconjugate Hermitian polynomial matrix, the exponential time bound for this step is reduced to a low-order polynomial. As the remaining steps have a bound of the same type, considerable time-saving is entailed in larger problems. The procedure utilizes the fact that the relevant matrix may be viewed as the incidence matrix of a bipartite graph. The reduction involves finding the strongly connected components of the graph, resulting from the solution of an assignment problem."
"Stability criteria for systems containing an arbitrary number of pulse frequency modulators are considered, which fall under three basic categories, namely, Lyapunov's second method, frequency domain method, and a direct method for global finite pulse stability (GFPS) introduced earlier by the authors. The criteria are compared with respect to effectiveness (in terms of size of [parameter-] region sufficient for stability), generality (in terms of classes of applicable systems), and ease of application. The direct GFPS criterion is the simplest to apply and, at the same time, provides bounds on the number of pulses emitted by each modulator. Comparative examples yielded greater stability regions (of parameters) from the direct GFPS criterion than from (optimal application of) a recent frequency domain criterion of Gelig. A criterion based on Lyapunov's second method could provide good stability regions, but it is most difficult to apply, especially, for higher order systems."
"A new algorithm for use in the on-line digital computer control of tracking systems is presented and compared with the quadratic programming algorithm. The new algorithm is considered to be better than quadratic programming for on-line control because; 1) it appears to converge faster, 2) the cost function is a monotone function of the iteration number, and 3) the \"search\" is made within the constraint set."
"Recently, Sirisena [1] presented an algorithm for computing optimal controls by approximating the control profiles by piecewise polynomials. In this note, the algorithm is extended to treat optimal control problems with saturation-type control constraints and boundary constraints on the state variables."
 "The SAM Defense System optimization problem recently proposed by Lee is considered in the context of the finite horizon partially observed Markov optimization problem studied by Astrom and others. Three special cases of observation quality discussed by Lee are further examined."
"Recently, attention has been focused on the class of bilinear systems, both for its applicative interest and intrinsic simplicity. In fact, it appears that many important processes, not only in engineering, but also in biology, socio-economics, and ecology, may be modeled by bilinear systems. Moreover, since their nonlinearity is due to products between input and state variables, this class frequently may be studied by techniques similar to those employed for linear systems. This work is intended to motivate the interest of bilinear systems and to present the current state of research in its various aspects. After an introductory section, in which theoretical and applicative aspects of bilinear systems are enlightened, four other sections follow, respectively, devoted to structural properties, mathematical models, identification and optimization. In a final section, some concluding remarks are made on still open problems and possible trends for future research."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "It is shown that in solving for the symmetric matrixPthe number of linear equations and unknowns can be reduced from\\frac{1}{2}n(n + 1)to\\frac{1}{2}n(n - 1)by introducing a skew-symmetric matrix. This corresponds to an earlier result for the equationA_{1}^{T}P_{1} + P_{1}A = -Q."
"The problem of developing L2-stability criteria for feedback systems with a single time-varying gain, which impose average variation constraints on the gain, is treated. A unified approach is presented which facilitates the development of such average variation criteria for both linear and nonlinear systems. The stability criteria derived here are shown to be more general than the existing results."
 "An iteration algorithm is proposed for reducing the nonlinearity bias of an extended Kalman filter. The algorithm is a simple modification of the single stage iteration filter as defined by Mehra [3], which uses the same filter gains at each iteration. The simplified filter yields bias reduction comparable to the original iteration filter, but requires substantially fewer computations."
       "In this survey paper, results for optimal control problems governed by hereditary systems are presented and discussed. Although fundamental results (controllability, existence and uniqueness of optimal controls, feedback controls) obtained without employing abstract variational approaches are briefly reviewed, emphasis is placed on those results established through the use of general abstract variational theories, and, in particular, on those growing out of the theories developed by the late Lucien W. Neustadt. Motivating examples of hereditary systems encountered in applications (technological, biological, and biomedical) are given. Abstract variational theories involving the Lagrange Multiplier rule and the Kuhn-Tucker conditions in a Banach space, the approach of Dubovitskii-Milyutin, the quasiconvexity ideas of Gamkrelidze, and the abstract maximum principles developed in the work of Halkin and Neustadt are summarized briefly. A more detailed discussion of applications of the quasiconvexity ideas and the Neustadt theory to systems governed by differential-difference, functional-differential, and Volterra integral equations is presented for control problems both with and without state constraints. Recent results for control of hereditary systems with terminal function space boundary conditions are also reviewed."
"It is argued that we need theories of large systems. This is particularly so since society is composed of large systems, and since without applicat.ions, control theory will be sterile. Some typical large systems are economics, education, urban systems, transportation, energy, and the environment. Observe that these systems are not independent. This makes the associated problems more interesting and difficult. It is noted that the fuzzy set theory of Lotfi Zadeh appears promising in this area since all of the concepts associated with large systems are imprecise or fuzzy."
"This paper describes a specific postflight data analysis (PFDA) technique, which is termed adaptive, iterated, extended Kalman filtering (AIEKF), and illustrates the application of the PFDA tool to the estimation of aerodynamic coefficients (C_{x}, C_{N}, and C_{m}) for a single-axis model of a thrust-vector-controlled missile. It is demonstrated that PFDA embraces many areas of interest to control specialists, such as simulation of nonlinear systems, estimation, optimization, and validation."
"This paper reports a reasonably complete theory of necessary and sufficient conditions for a control to be superior with respect to a nonscalar-valued performance criterion. The latter maps into a finite-dimensional integrally closed directed partially ordered linear space. The applicability of the theory to the analysis of dynamic vector estimation problems and to a class of uncertain optimal control problems is demonstrated."
"In this paper the various policies in fixed end-time stochastic control are discussed first. The emphasis is on the difference between the feedback and closed-loop policies. It is shown how the closed-loop policy has the important property that it can be actively adaptive, while the feedback policy can only be passively adaptive. The feature of being actively adaptive is possible when the control has a dual effect, i.e., in addition to its effect on the state it affects the state uncertainty. The intimate connection between the neutrality (lack of dual effect) and certainty equivalence properties for a class of problems is proved. This new result is then used to widen the class of problems for which it was previously known that the certainty equivalence property holds."
"This paper applies the Dantzig-Wolfe decomposition technique to control systems governed by Markov chains, and the three usual types of costs: 1) the average cost attained until a target state is reached, 2) discounted cost, 3) average cost per unit time. Additional systems constraints are allowed. A technique for subdividing or \"essentially\" decomposing the problem is developed, and a Markov interpretation is given to each subsystem. The special significance, for this problem, of the extreme points and rays of the subproblem, is discussed."
"This paper presents a survey and informal discussion of the interactions between system and control scientists and economists."
"The present paper considers the problem of determining the eigenvalue sensitivities of linear time-invariant control systems. The approach adopted is new in the field of eigenvalue sensitivity and the results derived apply to both distinct and repeated eigenvalues. The method is illustrated by an example."
"The important theorem due to Rosenbrock, concerning the limits of linear state variable feedback in modifying the dynamics of constant linear multivariable systems, is obtained from state space considerations. This approach illuminates the results which were originally obtained by polynomial system matrix methods."
"A method is presented for estimating the system matrix triple{F,G,H}from noisy measurements of the input and output signals. The algorithm which is derived considering stationary, discrete time systems possessing cyclic state space, enables the estimation to be carried out without having to first estimate the output structural indices. The proposed consistent estimator can be easily implemented."
 "This communication establishes the equivalence of two important approaches to transfer function simplification viz. simplification by moment matching [1] and simplification by continued fraction expansion and truncation [2]. It is further shown that another approach to transfer function simplification based on frequency response matching [3], [4], is closely related to the first two approaches."
  "The problem of estimating the state of a linear dynamic system driven by additive Gaussian noise with unknown time varying statistics is considered. Estimates of the state of the system are obtained which are based on all past observations of the system. These observations are linear functions of the state contaminated by additive white Gaussian noise. A previously developed algorithm designed for use in the case of stationary noise is modified to allow estimation of an unknown Kalman gain and thus the system state in the presence of unknown time varying noise statistics. The algorithm is inherently parallel in nature and if implemented in a computer with parallel processing capability should only be slightly slower than the stationary Kalman filtering algorithm with known noise statistics."
"This paper develops algorithms for filtering and smoothing for parallel computers. Numerical results are presented and implementation details are discussed. In the example it is illustrated that parallel methods have better convergence properties than nonparallel methods for nonlinear problems."
"We consider multisectored economies characterized by a not necessarily linear input-output operatorA (\\cdot)which transforms eachn-vector of total gross outputs into somen-vector of final demands. Attention is focused on cases in which some prime resource must be allocated throughout an economy which does not possess decreasing returns to scale. Some general results are proved concerning the nature of the solution of the problem of globally optimizing the Gross National Product. It is proved, for example, that under certain assumptions the absolute maximum value of the Gross National Product can be determined by solvingnnonlinear equations, each in only one unknown, in whichnis the number of sectors into which the economy is divided."
"Data filtering with presmoothed measurements is a useful technique for data compression in high data rate, noisy measurement systems. A sequential filtering algorithm is derived for processing integrated measurements, and the algorithm is applied to data filtering with discrete presmoothed measurements. Prefilter trade studies with a two dimension system show that the algorithm may provide a large reduction in filter computations with only a small increase in rms error."
"The concept of reachability of discrete-time quantized control systems is introduced and the relations between reachability properties and structures of linear, time-invariant, discrete-time quantized control systems are discussed. It is shown for those systems with a single-input and the diagonalizable transition matrix that reachability properties are heavily influenced by the integral characteristics of eigenvalues."
"In this paper, the joint plant and measurement control problem of linear, unknown, discrete time systems excited by white Ganssian noise is considered. The performance criterion is quadratic in the state and is additive in the plant and measurement control. The adaptive control solution is obtained by approximating the dynamic programming equation-the approximation amounts to replacing the optimal adaptive cost-to-go in the dynamic programming equation by the average value of the truly optimum cost-to-go for each admissible model. In our solution, the adaptive plant and measurement control schemes can be separated. The adaptive plant control is given by the product of the weighted integrals with the a posteriori probability of the parameter as weights. The adaptive measurement control scheme is obtained as the solution of a constrained nonlinear, optimization problem for each time; the constraint equations being the error covatiance matrix equations in the Kalman filter. An illustrative example of the optimum timing of measurements is discussed where the joint adaptive control scheme is simulated and its performance is compared with the optimum value of the performance if the system parameters were completely known."
"The optimal control of discrete-time, linear-quadratic-Gaussian systems with one-step-delay sharing information pattern is considered. The optimal controller is shown to obey a certain \"separation\" property. Furthermore explicit discrete-time equations are derived whose solutions are the gains of the optimal controller."
"An important performance criterion for moving vehicle longitudinal control systems is string stability in the face of perturbations in the motion of individual vehicles. Systems employing a moving-cell reference for each vehicle always exhibit string stability since there is no vehicle interaction within the string. This correspondence investigates the string stability for a class of relative-motion systems where a moving-cell position reference is not available. It is shown that string stability can be achieved only by using both forward and rearward intervehicle separation measurements."
"Some simulation results are presented to demonstrate difficulties which may arise in choosing initialization procedures and prediction algorithms for reentry vehicle (RV) tracking filters operating in various coordinate systems."
"A method is presented to obtain optimal feedback control laws to reduce the angular momentum of a tumbling asymmetric spacecraft to rest within a finite interval of time. This correspondence only treats the case with unconstrained but finite continuous control functions."
"When recursively estimating the state of a nonlinear process using a second-order filter to process data from many sensors, the method of augmenting the state vector with those sensor systematic errors for which estimates are desired can result in a new vector of extremely large dimension. To avoid the computational problems arising from operations with large dimension matrices it is desirable to decouple the state and systematic error estimation. An efficient method of generating the estimates separately has been derived for the linear filter [1]. For the second-order filter [2] the separation can also be accomplished although unless the observation model is linear, the estimates are coupled during the discrete update stage of the two stage filter. If the observation model is linear, the estimates are completely decoupled just as in the linear filter."
"In [1], Boozer and McDaniel showed by means of a counterexample that whitening the measurement residual sequence output from the Kalman filter is not sufficient for identifying the transition matrix of a linear dynamic system. Recent work by the present authors, documented in [2], has shown that in many cases the identification can be accomplished by requiring further that the residual sequence have a zero mean. Imposing this requirement, the transition matrix of the Boozer and McDaniel example is identified."
"Several implementations of fixed interval smoothers are discussed. It is observed that fixed interval smoothing can be performed without storing and inverting covariances of the filtered estimate. Unfortunately these algorithms are not generally stable."
 "The covariance propagation differential equation of a continuous linear dynamical system forced by a Gaussian purely random process is derived for the case when the inputs are related through time-delays. State variable formulation is used, a modified form of the well-known matrix differential equation is developed. The steady-state covariance equation is shown to be a \"Lyapunov\" type equation so that well-developed numerical techniques can be used for its solution."
 "An algorithm is introduced which ensures that the reduced-order model derived by equating time-moments and by continued fraction synthesis will be stable, assuming the high-order system is stable."
"The employment of quantization in a control system can lead to the introduction of error in the output. This correspondence presents a method for reducing the quantization error by the use of adaptive sampling. An example is provided to fully illustrate the application of the method and to demonstrate the output error reduction."
"An intuitively appealing derivation of the Fibonacci searching algorithm is presented. A new equation is developed to determine appropriate test points for Fibonacci searching."
"A new result is presented for time-optimal control of discrete systems of ordernwith any numberrof bounded inputs and related to some previous works in this field."
"Problems of sensitivity of the optimal performance of linear-quadratic stochastic systems with instantaneous output feedback is studied. Optimal-cost sensitivity matrices are derived. Once the optimization problem is solved, no special computations are required to obtain the sensitivity matrices."
"The problem of selecting a fixed dimensional output which will lead to the best instantaneous output-feedback is solved for linear stochastic systems with quadratic cost criterion."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to correct a claim of [1]. Reference [1, theorem 4] states a necessary and sufficient frequency-domain condition for the existence of a nonpositive definite solution to the algebraic Riccati equation. This condition is, however, not correct, since the stated condition is necessary but not sufficient. This will be demonstrated by means of a counterexample."
"The correspondence derives an algorithm for designing suboptimal dynamic controllers for linear discrete systems."
"The correspondence deals with systems whose sensitivity to parameter variations cannot be ignored when designing their control, and where a compromise between performance and sensitivity is sought. An analytical procedure is given to derive the control (of linear systems) that minimizes a cost functional which includes performance cost and sensitivity cost, the relative weights of these costs being adjustable."
"It is shown how globally stable model reference adaptive control systems may be designed when one has access to only the plant's input and output signals. Controllers for single input-single output, nonlinear, nonautonomous plants are developed based on Lyapunov's direct method and the Meyer-Kalman-Yacubovich lemma. Derivatives of the plant output are not required, but are replaced by filtered derivative signals. An augmented error signal replaces the error normally used, which is defined as the difference between the model and plant outputs. However, global stability is assured in the sense that the normally used error signal approaches zero asymptotically."
"A computer oriented algorithm for evaluating the moments of impulse response, is proposed. This is particularly useful for simplifying the dynamics of large-order systems using the technique of moment matching."
"Conditions for observability of linear time-varying delay differential systems with time variable delays is established. An algebraic criteria for observability is also develeped."
"A simple derivation of necessary conditions for Pareto optimality in multicriteria dynamic optimization problems is presented. The results show that a broad class of problems with a vector cost criterion can be reduced to a minimization problem with a scalar cost."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for observability of two classes of linear systems governed by first-order partial differential equations with space- and time-dependent parameters are given. Observations of the distributed state are made by scanning sensors with time-varying gains."
"A three-step procedure is given for the determination of a minimal realization from a set of inexactly specified Markov parameters."
"In this note several real matrices are given whose ranks determine the invertibility of linear multivariable systems. Both the cases where the system is represented by state equations and by the transfer function matrix are considered."
"A simple formula for the order and the degree of a zero of a multivariable system at a point p0of the complex plane is deduced using the Laurent expansion of the transfer function at the point p0The formula avoids the need for computing the inverse or generalized inverse of the matrix, and allows easy determination of factorable elementary factors."
"A simple algebraic approach to pole-placement problems is presented. It is also shown that the same technique applies to the design of identity observers."
"In this paper a special case of the Regulator Problem with Internal Stability (RPIS) [1] is studied from the standpoint of obtaining solutions that are insensitive to perturbations in both the system parameters and the controller gains. The ability to include \"robustness\" into the problem yields new insight into the role played by dynamic compensation in linear control system synthesis."
"This paper develops a method for obtaining the optimal mix of high and low sulfur fuels for users such as electric utilities and large industrial complexes. The mix is determined so that environmental limits are met and plant operating schedules are fully maintained. The problem is formulated in a \"minimum energy with penalty function\" format and well known optimal control theory methods are applied to obtain the solution. An adaption of this or similar procedures may be necessary in the future because of the scarcity of low sulfur fuels and under appropriate meteorological conditions a fuel cost savings of approximately $20 000 per day for 1000 MWe coal-fired generation plant may be obtained. The methods developed here may be used with present electric utility economic dispatch programs to integrate local meteorology and environmental limits with plant economics. An example application demonstrates the methods."
"The application of Linear Programming (LP) to the design of state variable feedback controllers for multivariable plants with known deterministic inputs is described. The design problem is solved in two steps. The first step consists of an open-loop optimization in which LP is used to determine the plant input vector profile which optimizes the plant response to a specified demand. The second step, also implemented by LP, produces the controller parameters (a matrix of constant gains) and consists of an optimum fitting, through the feedback controller, of the input and feedback error vector profiles determined in the first step. The performance criterion used is the minimum Integral Weighted Absolute Value (IWAV). The technique is illustrated with an application to the NERVA nuclear rocket engine controller design."
"Given the Lyapunov matrix equationA'Q + QA = -Pa fundamental inequality which is satisfied by the extremal eigenvalues of the matricesQandP, providedAis a stability matrix, is established. This result, besides being interesting from a theoretical standpoint, is extremely useful in the determination of suboptimal controllers for the minimum time problem [1]."
"The zero assignment problem of a scalar output system via control law with a feedforward gain vector is considered. It is shown thatr - 1zeros can be assigned by choosing the feed-forward gain vector, whereris the dimension of an input vector."
"A generalized weighting function with a pseudo-predictive portion is proposed for use in system identification. Several characteristics have been shown when the learning method has been used as the identification algorithm."
"A simple algorithm for constructing a class of transforming matrices that transform a nonderogatory Hessenberg matrix to its Schwarz form is proposed in this note."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A determinantal technique of Bode is used to exhibit a factorization of det[I + FG] as a product of factors that are easy to measure and easy to interpret even whenFis not diagonal. It is stressed that bothFandGmay be transcendental."
"This note shows that the generalized Popov criterion cannot be used to construct a Lur'e-type Lyapunov function for a multimachine power system model if transfer conductances are included. The two-machine case of the above paper is an exception."
"Kalman filtering in the presence of white process and measurement noises having unknown means and covariances is considered. Only stationary linear discrete stochastic systems are considered. It is shown that the identification of noise covariances can be done without the knowledge of noise means. This means that the problem of identifying the noise statistics can be decomposed into two separate subproblems, namely, 1) identification of noise covariances and 2) identification of noise means, and that these two subproblems can be solved in that order. A procedure for identifying noise covariances is developed in this paper. It is a nontrivial extension of Mehra's results to the case where the process and measurement noises have unknown means, and are correlated with each other. This procedure, like Mehra's, can be used either in a nonrecursive mode, or in a batch-recursive mode. Solution of subproblem 2), and the standard Kalman filter algorithm are not discussed since they are well known in the literature."
"In replying to comments on the above paper for designing an observer for a linear functional of the state vector of a linear system, it is shown that this approach forms the basis of procedures for designing low-order degenerate observers in general."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The class of linear time-varying systems\\dot{x}(t) = A (t)x(t)where the state transition matrix can be computed by\\Phi(t,0) = exp (A_{1}t) exp (A_{2}t)is extended to the cases where eigenvalues ofA(t)need not be independent oft."
 "The approach to the estimation of the optimum Kalman filter steady-state gain proposed by Mehra and modified by Carew and Belanger can be improved by noting the true statistical nature of the problem. A new approach based on both simple or weighted least squares is outlined and tested by Monte Carlo simulation."
 "Optimal control theory is used to determine the best temperature history for an aquaculture facility to raise lobsters most economically. The differential equations for lobster growth and lobster cost are given and the optimal control problem is solved. Some sample numerical results are presented and the interactions of these theoretical results with practical considerations are discussed. Solutions are presented for both local optimal trajectories (two year lobsters) and global optimal trajectories (three year lobsters). The same approach is applicable to other species under consideration for aquaculture such as other crustacea, mollusks, and finned fish."
"A new procedure is presented for the identification of discrete linear multivariable systems. Using Lyapunov's direct method the asymptotic stability of the overall system is established when the inputs are sufficiently general. It is shown that the procedure may also be extended for the identification of a certain class of nonlinear systems."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Several results exposing the interrelations between state-space and frequency-domain descriptions of multivariable linear systems are presented. Three canonical forms for constant parameter autoregressive-moving average (ARMA) models for input-output relations are described and shown to corrrespond to three particular canonical forms for the state variable realization of the model. Invariant parameters for the partial realization problem are characterized. For stochastic processes, it is shown how to construct an ARMA model, driven by white noise, whose output has a specified covariance. A two-step procedure is given, based on minimal realization and Cholesky-factorization algorithms. Though the goal is an ARMA model, it proves useful to introduce an artificial state model and to employ the recently developed Chandrasekhar-type equations for state estimation. The important case of autoregressive processes is studied and it is shown how the Chandrasekhar-type equations can be used to obtain and generalize the well known Levinson-Wiggins-Robinson (LWR) recursion for estimation of stationary autoregressive processes."
"For a given nonstationary matrix covariance with a finite-dimensionality property that is the time-varying generalization of the rational power spectrum matrix property, we show how to find a linear finite-dimensional system driven by white noise with output covariance equal to the prescribed covariance."
"This paper surveys the field of optimal input design for parameter estimation as it has developed over the last two decades. Many of the developments covered are only recent and have not appeared in the open literature elsewhere. After a brief introduction, the paper discusses the historical background of the subject both in the engineering and in the statistical literature. The concepts of optimality and input design are then discussed, followed by a derivation of the Fisher information matrix for multiinput multioutput systems with process noise. The design procedures are divided into the categories of time-domain methods and frequency-domain methods, with the former being more general, but also more time consuming (computationally). Several extensions to state constraints, continuous-time systems, etc., are discussed. A number of examples are given to illustrate the nature of optimal inputs. The results on time-domain synthesis with state constraints and their relationship to \"dual control\" are new."
"The possibility of estimating process parameters using input-output data collected when the system operates in closed loop is discussed in this paper. Concepts that are useful for a systematic treatment of the problem are introduced. The results refer to the case where the regulator is a linear feedback law or alternates between several such laws. It is shown that a straightforwardly applied identification scheme has the same identifiability properties as the more complex method in which the parameters of the closed-loop system are estimated first. It is also shown that it is always possible to achieve the same identifiability properties as for open-loop systems by shifting between different linear regulators. The required number of regulators depends only on the number of inputs and outputs. The results obtained are illustrated by a numerical example."
 "In studies of linear open-loop systems, the assumption of time invariance is often tacitly made. In this paper we show how a time dependent system can arise quite naturally. The estimation of time dependent transfer function, on the basis of a single realization, when the input/output processes are nonstationary is considered. We also consider the problem of testing a given open-loop system for time dependence. The tests described here make use of the concept of the \"evolutionary cross spectra,\" and rests essentially on testing the \"uniformity\" of a set of vectors, whose components consist of the \"evolutionary gain spectra\" and \"evolutionary phase spectra.\" Using a logarithmic transformation on the evolutionary gain spectra, we show that the mechanics of the tests are formally equivalent to a two-factor multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) procedure. Numerical illustrations, from the real and simulated data, of the proposed tests are included."
"The history of the development of statistical hypothesis testing in time series analysis is reviewed briefly and it is pointed out that the hypothesis testing procedure is not adequately defined as the procedure for statistical model identification. The classical maximum likelihood estimation procedure is reviewed and a new estimate minimum information theoretical criterion (AIC) estimate (MAICE) which is designed for the purpose of statistical identification is introduced. When there are several competing models the MAICE is defined by the model and the maximum likelihood estimates of the parameters which give the minimum of AIC defined by AIC = (-2)log-(maximum likelihood) + 2(number of independently adjusted parameters within the model). MAICE provides a versatile procedure for statistical model identification which is free from the ambiguities inherent in the application of conventional hypothesis testing procedure. The practical utility of MAICE in time series analysis is demonstrated with some numerical examples."
"Conditions which depend on the covariance of a vector random process, sufficient to ensure the process can be generated by a linear, invertible system of finite order driven by white noise are derived, and equations which determine the parameters of the system are found. Some structural properties of lumped covariances are given; these stress the close relation between the structure of linear systems and that of lumped covariances and provide a means of establishing the minimal order of generating systems."
"In this paper it is shown that a natural representation of a state space is given by the predictor space, the linear space spanned by the predictors when the system is driven by a Gaussian white noise input with unit covariance matrix. A minimal realization corresponds to a selection of a basis of this predictor space. Based on this interpretation, a unifying view of hitherto proposed algorithmically defined minimal realizations is developed. A natural minimal partial realization is also obtained with the aid of this interpretation."
"The advantage of using a unique parameterization in a numerical procedure for the identification of a system from operating records has been well established. In this paper several sets of canonical forms are described for state space models of deterministic multivariable linear systems; the members of these sets having therefore the required uniqueness property within the equivalence classes of minimal realizations of the system. In the identification of a stochastic system, it is shown how the problem depends also upon determining a unique factorization of the spectral density matrix of the system, and the sets of canonical forms obtained for the deterministic system are extended to this case."
"Distributed effects are present in almost all physical systems. In some cases these can be safely ignored but there are many interesting problems where these effects must be taken into account. Most infinite dimensional systems which are important in control theory are specifiable in terms of a finite number of parameters and hence are, in principle, amenable to identification. The state-space theory of infinite dimensional systems has advanced greatly in the last few years and is now at a point where real applications can be contemplated. The realizability criteria provided by this work can be employed effectively in the first step of the identification procedure, i.e., in the selection of an appropriate infinite dimensional model. We show that there exists a natural classification of nonrational transfer functions, which is based on the character of their singularities. This classification has important implications for the problem of finite dimensional approximations of infinite dimensional systems. In addition, it reveals the class of transfer functions for which there exist models with spectral properties closely reflecting the properties of the singularities of the transfer functions. The study of models with infinitesimal generators having a connected resolvent sheds light on some open problems in classical frequency response methods. Finally, the methods used here allow one to see the finite dimensional theory itself more clearly as the result of placing it in the context of a larger theory."
"Nonlinear systems composed of linear dynamic sub-systems in cascade with static power nonlinearities are considered. A structure theory is developed based on the representation of input/output behavior by rational functions in several variables. An algorithm is given which solves the minimal complete realization problem for two forms of the representation. Examples are worked in detail to illustrate the results."
"We consider the problem of what parametrizations of linear dynamical systems are appropriate for identification (i.e., so that the identification problem has a unique solution, and all systems of a particular class can be represented). Canonical forms for controllable linear systems under similarity transformation are considered and it is shown that their use in identification may cause numerical difficulties, and an alternate approach is proposed which avoids these difficulties. Then it is assumed that the system matrices are parametrized by some unknown parameters from a priori system knowledge. The identiability of such an arbitrary parametrization is then considered in several situations. Assuming that the system transfer function can be identified asymptotically, conditions are derived for local and global identifiability. Finally, conditions for identifiability from the output spectral density are given for a system driven by unobserved white noise."
"The identification of a multivariable stochastic system, usually, involves the estimation of a transfer function matrix, which is a general function of frequency. This estimation involves inversion of a large Hermitian matrix, which sometimes may become unwieldly. In this paper we describe how \"principal component analysis\" in the frequency domain may be used to replace the input/output variables by some function of smaller dimensions without much \"loss of information.\" The analogy between the \"factor analysis\" of time series in frequency domain and the minimal realization of state space models is pointed out. The principal component approach described in this paper is applied in the case of a simulated system."
"Impulse response identification almost always leads to an ill-posed mathematical problem. This fact is the basis for the well-known numerical difficulties of identification by means of the impulse response. The theory of regularizable ill-posed problems furnishes a unifying point of view for several specific methods of impulse response identification. In this paper we introduce a class of input/output representations, which we call λ-representations, for linear, time-invariant systems. For many cases of practical interest the identification of one of these representations is mathematically well-posed. Its determination is thus relatively insensitive to certain experimental uncertainties, and rational error-in-identification bounds may be found, so that λ-identification is often an attractive alternative to impulse response identification in the nonparametric modeling of physical systems which must be identified from input/ output records. We investigate the effects of input and output uncertainties (noise) on λ-identification, and discuss the problem of finding minimal realizations from these representations. We illustrate the work with an example of electromagnetic pulse (EMP) threat prediction using experimental data. Hard error bounds are provided on the predicted threat. For this problem, the appropriate λ-representation turns out to be the ramp response."
"This paper discusses numerical aspects of computing maximum likelihood estimates for linear dynamical systems in state-vector form. Different gradient-based nonlinear programming methods are discussed in a unified framework and their applicability to maximum likelihood estimation is examined. The problems due to singular Hessian or singular information matrix that are common in practice are discussed in detail and methods for their solution are proposed. New results on the calculation of state sensitivity functions via reduced order models are given. Several methods for speeding convergence and reducing computation time are also discussed."
"This paper discusses the problem of optimal design of experimental conditions for linear system identification. It is demonstrated that, in general, to achieve maximal return from an experiment, coupled design of all the experimental conditions, namely the test signal, sampling intervals and filters, should be carried out simultaneously. For the case of uniform sampling it is shown that joint design of the presampling filter, sampling rate and input can be carded out in the frequency domain. For the case of nonuniform sampling a sequential design procedure is developed which optimizes the information increment between samples."
"Stochastic search techniques have been the essential part for most identification and self-organizing or learning control algorithms for stochastic systems. Stochastic approximation search algorithms have been very popular among the researchers in these areas because of their simplicity of implementation, convergence properties, as well as intuitive appeal to the investigator. This paper presents an exposition of the stochastic approximation algorithms and their application to various parameter identification and self-organizing control algorithms."
"We will review the principal methods of estimation of parameters in multivariate autoregressive moving average equations which have additional observable input terms in them and present some new methods of estimation as well. We begin with the conditions for the estimability of the parameters. In addition to the usual method of system representation, the canonical form I, we will present two new representations of the system equation, the so-called canonical forms II and III which are convenient for parameter estimation. We will mention, in some detail, the various methods of estimation like the various least-squares methods, the maximum likelihood methods, etc., and discuss them regarding their relative accuracy of the estimate and the corresponding computational complexity. We will introduce a new class of estimates, the so-called limited information estimates which utilizes the canonical forms II and III. The accuracy of these estimates is close to that of maximum likelihood, but their computation time is only a fraction of the computation time for the usual maximum likelihood estimates. We will present a few numerical examples to illustrate the various methods."
"This paper presents the theory for and illustrates the application of gradient parameter estimation algorithms which have been developed for equation error formulations of parameter identification problems. These algorithms are computationally simple; hence, they are ideal candidates for on-line applications. They are limited, however, by availability of first- and second-order statistics of noise processes."
"This paper introduces the concept of strong instrumental variables and strong instrumental matrix sequences for the estimation of the transfer function parameters of discrete-time, time-invariant models of linear systems. It is shown that the strong instrumental variable estimators are strongly consistent and a sufficient condition for the estimator to be asymtotically unbiased is given. Moreover, it is shown that with a persistently exciting signal of appropriate order for an input, \"virtually\" any discrete-time, time-invariant, linear system model of appropriate order can be used to generate strong instrumental variables."
"This paper deals with the identification of a process modeled by a stable, linear difference equation of known order. Its output is subject to additive observation noise that is identically and independently distributed with zero mean and a constant variance. On-line estimators in which the process parameters as well as the process outputs are estimated simultaneously in real time are considered. For improving the stability of such on-line algorithms, a simple adaptive filter for the reference model is proposed. Further, it is shown that inclusion of such a filter relates the resulting bootstrap algorithms to the more general forms of the two stage least squares estimators viz. thek-class,h-class and the doublek-class estimators. Effectiveness of the filter in stabilizing the on-line algorithms is demonstrated by using data generated by a fourth-order model."
"Propagation of errors in identifying constant coefficient parameters of a discrete time linear system, using stochastic approximation algorithms, is investigated. Error and sensitivity analysis algorithms are derived for the cases when there is structural modeling error as well as when the a priori statistics of identified parameters, and plant and measurement noise, are incorrectly specified. The error and sensitivity analysis algorithms are useful as a design tool to better specify appropriate identification algorithms for actual implementation. The error and sensitivity analysis algorithms are applied to several examples including identification of eight predictor coefficients for adaptive digitized speech transmission."
"A recursive (on-line) identification algorithm is developed based upon the off-line maximum likelihood method by Åström and Bohlin. The basic idea of the algorithm consists in two modifications to the classical method. First an approximate noisemodel is applied to eliminate auto-regressive filtering in the computation of the noise-derivatives. Second, some approximations are introduced to make the direct recursive version of the iteration equations really on-line. The combination of the two modifications yields a compact on-line algorithm."
"A family of linear stochastic difference equation models is proposed for monthly river flows, the variance of the disturbance in the model varying sinusoidally with time. The unknown parameters in the model are estimated by using the given data and an algorithm is given for the choice of the appropriate number and type of autoregressive terms, sinusoidal trend terms, etc., in the model. The method is used to construct a model for the flows in Wabash and other rivers. This model is useful not only for forecasting but also for generating \"synthetic flows\" since the various statistical characteristics of the output generated by the model such as power spectra, correlograms, monthly means, and variances, etc., are very close to the corresponding characteristics of the observed flows. The model presented in this paper is compared with other models in the literature. The models of the fiver flows constructed by using daily and yearly data and the relative capabilities of the aggregated and nonaggregated models for forecasting are also discussed."
"The three step identification process of model development, parameter estimation, and performance analysis is illustrated through the identification of models for the prediction of electric power demand. Each step is carefully supported by numerical results based on physical data. Three types of progressively more complex but more accurate load models are identified which describe 1) time periodicity, 2) time periodicity plus load autocorrelation, and 3) time periodicity plus load autocorrelation plus dynamic temperature effects. Accurate predictions up to one week are demonstrated. General guidelines are extrapolated from this identification example when possible."
"This is an introductory survey of some of the ideas and methods in the identification and estimation of simultaneous equation systems in econometrics. After pointing out the special features of econometric systems, it defines the problem of identification and presents several methods for estimating the parameters in such systems. Hopefully such a survey will be useful to research workers in related fields including control engineering and statistics who are interested in the estimation of dynamic systems and wish to find out whether the works of econometricians are relevant to their own research. This is not a substitute for a treatise in econometrics, but it may help a researcher in a related field decide whether the techniques developed for dynamic econometric systems are useful for his purpose, whether he should study them in depth, and whether he can contribute to improving them. Some research topics will be suggested later in our discussion."
"This paper describes briefly the modeling of the United Kingdom economy in the least complex structural form allowable for the application of modern control techniques. The method employed is a blend of the \"black box\" approach where no knowledge of the inner mechanism is assumed and the classical approach of econometrics where economic theory is used to determine structure. The technique is illustrated in detail by means of a numerical example consisting of a four-equation sector of a larger model in which a full treatment of error is given. This serves to reveal to engineers the difficulties of econometrics, demonstrating the many pit-falls and acute problems that prevent a straightforward application of the methods of control theory."
"The modeling process may be viewed as a three-step iteration: 1) hypothesize a structure, 2) estimate (identify) unknown parameters, and 3) test for consistency between the model and available data. This paper describes a new, publicly-available computer program which performs the second and third tasks. The program, called General Purpose System Identifier and Evaluator (GPSIE), can handle nonlinear, time-varying, multiple input-output systems of arbitrary dimensions. The user supplies an array of data and a subprogram in PL/I or Fortran defining the model structure of interest. GPSIE searches for the maximum-likelihood estimates of any unknown parameters, and computes statistical measures of consistency between the model and the data. Options allow the user to deal efficiently with many kinds of systems."
"The main contribution of this paper is the introduction of a new canonical form for an adaptive observer for a linear multivariable system. The adaptive observer simultaneously estimates the state and the parameters of the unknown plant and is shown to be globally asymptotically stable. The extension of the results to discrete systems and the application of the adaptive observer in the control of helicopter dynamics is also considered in detail."
"A new method of parameter estimation has been developed to estimate a newly chosen group of eight parameters of the canine arterial system. These parameters, which are physically meaningful, include arterial radii, Young's modulus for the aortic wall, aortic length, and peripheral resistances. The method is model-based, and depends upon minimization of a criterion which combines weighted integrals of absolute values of pressure and flow with errors in certain average and peak values of waveforms. A minimization algorithm which is a modification of the Hooke and Jeeves pattern search method was used. The entire scheme was implemented on a hybrid computer. This method of parameter estimation was developed and checked by use of model-to-model studies. Then dog-to-model parameter estimation runs were made, using data recorded in a dog experiment. Estimated parameters were found to check direct measurements where these were possible, and variations in estimated parameters from data obtained after various drug interventions were found to fall into expected patterns. Future applications of the methods developed would appear to have promise for obtaining rapid estimates of human parameters from noninvasive measurements made in clinical situations."
"In recent years there has been increasing interest in autoregressive spectrum estimation. This procedure fits a finite autoregression to the time series data, and calculates the spectrum from the estimated autoregression coefficients and the one step prediction error variance. For multivariate time series, the estimated autoregressive matrices and one step prediction covariance matrix produce estimates of the spectra, coherences, phases, and group delays. The use of Akaike's information criterion (AIC) for identification of the order of the autoregression to be used makes the procedure objective. Experience gained from analyzing large amounts of data from the biological and physical sciences has indicated that AIC works very well for model identification when compared to more subjective procedures such as the examination of partialF-statistics. This experience has also indicated that using both autoregressive spectrum estimation and classical spectrum estimation and superimposing the plots gives a much stronger feeling for the shape of the true spectrum being estimated. The results of some of these analyses are presented."
"A statistically efficient and computationally economical two-stage least squares procedure for the estimation of the natural frequencies and damping parameters of structural systems under stationary random vibration conditions is considered. The structural system is represented by the system of ordinary differential equations that is characteristic of lumped mass-spring-damper systems with a random forcing function. Emphasis is placed on the problem corresponding to the observation of the top story vibrations of a tall building under random wind excitation. In that case, the random excitation can be approximated by a white noise and the regularly sampled vibration record can be represented as a mixed autoregressive-moving average (ARMA) time series. The ARMA time series parameters are estimated by a two-stage least squares method using only the covariance function of the top story vibrations. The natural frequency and damping parameters of the structural system can be expressed in terms of the AR parameters. Estimates of the coefficient of variation of the structural system parameter estimates are expressed in terms of the ARMA parameter estimates. The numerical results of the least squares and maximum likelihood parameter estimation procedures worked on a real vibration data example are shown."
"This paper begins with a discussion of the properties of the noise occurring in the structures considered. This noise is taken to be generated by a stationary, ergodic, purely nondeterministic process. In case the observed vector sequence is generated by an autoregressive-moving average process then (a little more than) the additional requirement that the best predictor be the best linear predictor suffices for the development of an asymptotic inference theory. Signal measurement problems are considered, first where the signal is directly observed except for some unknown parameters and second where the signal is not directly observable and some characteristics, such as the velocity of propagation, have to be measured. Finally nonstationary models, nonlinear models for prediction, transient signals, and irregularly spaced samples are briefly discussed. Throughout, the methods are based on the use of the fast Fourier transforms of the data and their relation to the use of quasimaximum likelihoods in terms of those transforms is discussed."
"The aim of this paper is to describe some of the important concepts and techniques which seem to help provide a solution of the stationary time series problem (prediction and model identification). Section I reviews models. Section II reviews prediction theory and develops criteria of closeness of a \"fitted\" model to a \"true\" model. The central role of the infinite autoregressive transfer functiong_{\\infty}is developed, and the time series modeling problem is defined to be the estimation ofg_{\\infty}. Section III reviews estimation theory. Section IV describes autoregressive estimators ofg_{\\infty}. It introduces a criterion for selecting the Order of an autoregressive estimator which can be regarded as determining the order of an AR scheme when in fact the time series is generated by an AR scheme of finite order."
"An adaptive predictor for discrete time stochastic processes with constant but unknown parameters is described. The predictor which in real time tunes its parameters using the method of least squares is called a self-tuning predictor. The predictor has attractive asymptotic properties. If the parameter estimation converges and if the predictor contains parameters enough, then it will converge to the minimum square error predictor that could be obtained if the parameters of the process were known. The computations to be carried out at each sampling interval are very moderate and the algorithm is well suited for real-time applications. The self-tuning predictor can be used to predict processes which contain trends or periodic disturbances. Further, the algorithm can easily be modified in order to make it possible to predict processes with slowly time-varying parameters."
"Estimation of the parameters in a mixed autoregressive moving average process leads to a nonlinear optimization problem. The negative logarithm of the likelihood function, suitably normalized, converges to a deterministic function as the sample length increases. The local and global extrema of this function are investigated. Conditions for the existence of a unique global and local minimum are given."
"This paper addresses itself to the variety of model inaccuracy problems arising in the implementation of on-line state estimation for power system bulk transmission networks. Two classes of models are investigated for which parameter estimation algorithms are derived and simulated. The first class consist of network and measurement system parameters of the system being monitored. The second class corresponds to the network equivalent parameters of all external systems. It is shown that telemetry data obtained by the internal system can provide the basis for both types of estimation. A significant factor here is the use made of scheduled and/or forced system outage information in the estimation of the network equivalent."
"The characterization of biological data during sleepwaking state changes requires the utilization of time series and point process techniques of analysis. The time series procedures that have been found useful in describing biological activity during sleep include frequency domain techniques, such as the autospectrum, digital filtering, complex demodulation, coherence, and cross-spectrum calculations, as well as time domain procedures, such as autocorrelation and matched filtering. The point process techniques include interval distributions, intensity functions, serial correlations, and cross-intensity functions. In addition, applications of frequency domain techniques such as the interval spectrum and spectrum of counts have been implemented for point process data."
"A channel identification problem arises in high speed digital communication systems that transmit information over time-dispersive channels such as telephone channels and radio channels. This paper deals with algorithms for performing the channel identification rapidly in conjunction with the signal detection to recover the information. The stability and convergence properties of the algorithms are demonstrated."
"Many biological processes such as water balance and temperature regulation may be modeled by a variable-structure compartmental system of ordinary differential equations. In some cases the system is naturally bilinear, and in others the bilinear system may be a valid approximation of a complex nonlinear process. Tracer dynamics and associated methodology, which can be used to realize certain properties of the system, are analyzed. The theory is applied to tracer experiments for the development of a mammalian water-balance model."
"This paper presents the development of two new mathematical models of driver behavior in single-lane car following situations. Optimum parameter values in each of these models were obtained using standard parameter identification algorithms. The basic approach to model development was to derive the model structure using optimal control theory. The problem was formulated as a model-tracking problem and a quadratic cost function was minimized. Model parameters were optimized by comparing model behavior with freeway data obtained on Interstate 71 in Ohio by Clear and Treiterer. The results indicate that the models fit the data very well during acceleration and deceleration phases, but not during constant velocity regions. To obtain a better fit during transitions between acceleration and deceleration phases, a second model was postulated based on the hypothesis that the driver tracks not only the car directly in front of him, but also cars directly ahead of the lead car. An adaptive controller structure with a mode switching algorithm has been derived and its parameters optimized."
"A procedure is described for the identification of multiinput-multioutput transfer function and the disturbance model from closed-loop data. The basic step of the identification procedure is to obtain a multivariate time series model for the input and the output series. A new method-viz., the method of successive orthogonalization is given for the modeling of multiple time series. Real data on closed-loop operation of a blast furnace are analyzed."
"The advection-diffusion model of air pollution over an urban area is developed. The region is subdivided into a grid and the three-dimensional partial differential equation of the pollution concentration is reduced to a linear vector difference equation. Along with this discrete equation, a stochastic model of air pollution is considered and pollution concentrations over the area are estimated from observed data generated by a few monitor points. High dimensionality of the resulting Kalman filter equation is avoided by using a discrete form of Chandrasekar-type equations. Diffusion coefficients in the advection-diffusion model, which are difficult to specify accurately, are also identified."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Lists the sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The success of a large phased array which has been in operational inventory for nearly six years is unique. The author suggests reasons for its relatively low cost development and maintenance. System concepts which have contributed most to the Unprecedented \"blue-suit\" operation and maintenance are reviewed."
"A major decision in the design of phased array antennas is the selection of array configuration. Once the coverage sector, net antenna gain, effective radiated power (ERP) and other system requirements are established, the effects of (1) subdividing the coverage sector, i. e. , using multiple antennas and (2) choosing linear versus sector arc arrays can be determined."
"Inertialess scanning techniques have been implemented in many different ways over the last decade, but the development of designs for airborne phase-scanned antennas has lagged behind that of ground systems largely because of the limitations of size, weight, volume, and cost."
"Studies on a ship terminal for a maritime satellite system have shown that a shipboard antenna with a 6 - 8 dB gain would have an optimum in costs. Therefore the DFVLR - Institut fur Flugfunk und Mikrowellen decided to design an experimental shipboard antenna system meeting these datas. The first model of the antenna system was tested by the ESRO-Balloon-Simulation-Experiment during Sept./Oct. 1973 in the English Channel."
"An experimental system to test the potential performance of a two-pulse, four-element adaptive array has been constructed, using two four-element arrays to represent the receiver function and 8 signal sources distributed in azimuth to represent clutter. Results are reported on tests which are in progress to evaluate the limitations of mutual coupling, receiver match, A/D conversion, and simulated platform motion."
"An extremely low profile modular conformal phased array antenna design will be presented. Components that make up the antenna will be described to show the unique features such as the plug-in balun, the MHP phase shifter assembly, and the stripline RF manifold tracks incorporated to a create a lightweight, reliable, maintainable panel. The eight element test array fabricated using the final array design features along with range test results will be given."
"In classical reflect-arrays, radiating elements and phase-shifters are quite distinct. The transitions between these two parts and the shielding problems generally lead to complicated structures. In the array presented the phase shifter elements (PIN diodes) are integrated on the radiating surface. Scanning is then realized by changing the position of the reflection plane in open propagation."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Principles applicable to controlling stored-product insects with radiofrequency (RF) energy and general findings of research on this topic are reviewed. Data are presented on the frequency dependence of the dielectric constant and dielectric loss factor of insects and grain, and use of such information is discussed in relation to RF treatment for insect control. Some aspects of practical application are also considered."
"Damage to nerves in the body can cause loss of voluntary muscle function, such as the arms and legs, and loss of involuntary muscle function such as heart contraction, control of urination, etc. In many cases, if appropriate nerves could be stimulated by external means, these functions could be restored. This paper describes experimental work to develop an extremely small implanted device which, when located close to a viable impaired nerve, can restore its function. The device is activated by RF electromagnetic waves passing through the skin which do not damage the intervening tissue."
"A temperature probe has been constructed which uses liquid crystals as a temperature-sensitive sensor and fiberoptic to transmit light to and from the sensor. Since the probe is completely nonmetallic, it is ideal for making temperature measurements in tissue subjected to electromagnetic radiation. The probe can measure temperature differences to within 0.1/spl deg/C accuracy."
"A theoretical study has been conducted to determine the electromagnetic field induced inside of biological bodies of irregular shapes. A tensor integral equation was derived and solved numerically for various biological models."
"The development of electromagnetic radiation techniques for thawing frozen organs is necessary in establishing frozen organ banks for surgical transplantation. Rapid and uniform thawing is a very difficult problem which is dependent upon kidney size, frequency of radiation, and power level. Failure to accomplish these thawing conditions results in excessive tissue damage. Experiments with canine and rabbit kidneys at two different frequencies are described."
"The theory of microwave radiometry of biological systems is outlined. To check theoretical predictions, an X-band microwave radiometer of the correlation type has been built. More recently, a new series of experiments have been conducted with a self-nulling Dicke radiometer operating at 9.2 GHz. Preliminary experiments performed on humans and some lower animals and plant vegetation show, in principle, the correctness of the theory."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A receiving array antenna has RF information in the response of its elements that may simultaneously cover many targets in the \"radio scene\" in front of it. To realize this potential requires an enormous amount of data processing. This data processing could be accomplished efficiently with an \"optical data processor,\" provided a reasonable optical replica of the RF field in the antenna aperture could be realized."
"Low cost commercial microcomputers, (currently used in many diverse applications, e.g. point-of-sale terminals, desk top computers, check processors, etc.), despite their relatively low computational speed, provide the opportunity for computing beam steering and shaping phase shifts for large phased-array antennas at high beam switching rates through the use of federated multi-computer techniques."
"The system advantages and limitations imposed by the solid state phased array RADAR are reviewed. The implications of these factors on the RADAR subsystems are discussed and the characteristics of the U.S. Army test bed solid state RADAR are presented."
"The development model of the AN/TPS-59, an advanced tactical air-defense RADAR, employs a planar array composed of a vertical stack of linear row-arrays. Azimuth scanning is by mechanical rotation of the antenna while phase controlled solid-state row-transmitters and row-receivers provide electronic scanning in elevation."
"The requirements for a transmitter-receiver that is distributed spatially on an array are reviewed and the deaign of the RF and the power supply packages are described. Details of the major RF components are discussed as well as overall parameters such as cost trade-offs and array signal and power distribution problems."
"The advantages of Solid-State Transmitters and typical configurations will be briefly described. Several S. S. L-band modules developed over the past two years are delineated. The technical design approach of high power S. S. amplifiers will be discussed with emphasis on design for low junction temperature (long life) and production yield. A technique utilizing Smith Chart contour curves is presented."
"Solid state transceivers have been utilized in an L-Band array. The experience associated with the acquisition of over 300,000 total transceiver operating hours obtained with 97 transceivers will be described."
"This paper presents the results of a development program for a 40 watt, S-Band transmit/receive module. The module contains, transistor amplifiers, diode phase shifters, and crossed dipoles for operation with all senses of linear and circular polarizations. One hundred modules were fabricated for an experimental 10 x 10 subarray."
"An X-band transceiver phased array module is described for MAIR (Modular Airborne Intercept RADAR). The transmit chain produces an output power of 4 watts -- while the receive section exhibits a noise figure of 7 dB. In addition, recent developments in improving the module's efficiency, bandwidth and size reduction will be presented. A typical RADAR configuration is presented using this module."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Multimode waveguide transition sections are designed based on a quasi-optical approach and rectangular and radial modal analyses. The radial modal analysis is most suitable for large flare angle transitions possessing spurious mode cut-off cross-sections."
"The application of symmetry analysis to uniform waveguides is discussed. Symmetry analysis provides exact information concerning mode classification, mode degeneracy, modal field symmetries, and the minimum waveguide sectors which completely determine the modes in each mode class."
"A formulation of the variational bound method is presented which together with some previous work can provide both upper and lower bounds on the phase shifts or equivalent network elements of obstacles located in single and multimode waveguides. As an illustration numerical results are obtained for a rectangular parallel equiped obstacle. The upper and lower bounds on the phase shifts are quite close to one another."
"The proximity effects of multiple step transmission line discontinuities have been computed by a computer assisted integral equation technique and good agreement with experimental data and exact asymptotic solutions is obtained. New results for typical matching structures and filter geometries are presented."
"A solution for the fields at a waveguide-horn junction is derived using the iterative technique of overlapping regions. By dividing the junction into semi-infinite rectangular and sectoral regions and using the Green's functions for the sub-regions, the problem is reduced to the solution of a system of integral equations of the Fredholm type. The solution is relatively simple and the method is shown to be efficient and reliable in comparison with other techniques particularly for the reflection coefficient in the feed waveguide."
"Knowing the elements of capacitance matrices for coupled microstrip lines, we are able to obtain the characteristics of coupled or meander lines by application of a matrix theory. The elements of the capacitance matrice a previously computed from geometrical dimensions of the lines can now be obtained directly by analytical formulas in a large domain of values of omega , s, h and epsilon/sub r/."
"An accurate and efficient method was developed for computing the resonant frequencies of microstrip resonators. The numerical data were compared with other theoretical and experimental results. The agreement of the numerical results with experimental data was extremely good."
"This paper presents an N-way branch line coupler which is capable of splitting an input signal into N-way equal or unequal amplitude output signals. It consists of N parallel and 2(N-1) shunt quarter wavelength transmission lines and gives a reasonable isolation among output ports at the design center frequency."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In the developed countries there has been a remarkable increase in the number of processes and devices that utilize or emit microwaves during the last 25 years. Such devices are used in all sectors of our society for military, industrial , telecommunications, and consumer applications. Because of the world-wide implications of the rapidly developing technology and associated health safety considerations, development and implementation of a program for international cooperation in the use and protective measures related to microwave/radiofrequency exposure is required. Activity in this respect has been initiated by the Regional Office for Europe of the World Health Organization (WHO/EURO) which has developed a long term program concerned with the health effects of nonionizing radiations. To implement this program, several steps have been taken with participation by scientists and administrators from several countries. These activities have engendered plans and proposals for facilitating exchange and evaluation of information on the biologic and health effects of microwave radiation and in focusing attention on those areas in which additional information and new approaches are needed."
"The cranial area of dogs was exposed dorsally to 2450 MHz (CW) microwaves at different power densities, while various temperatures (rectal, skin, jugular and tympanic), blood flows (pulmonary, renal and systemic circulation) and pressures (interventricular and systemic arterial) were simultaneously monitored. The preliminary results obtained provide a basis for comparison of the response of various organs to localized and whole-body exposure to microwaves."
"Rabbit superior cervical ganglia were exposed to continuous wave 2450 MHz fields within a temperature controlled waveguide environment. Absorbed power densities between 2 and 1000 W/kg failed to significantly influence conduction latencies of responses recorded from postganglionic fibers due to stimulation of either B (myelinated) or C (unmyelinated) fibers in the preganglionic trunk."
"Fixed ratio performance changes of rats exposed to near zone 918 MHz radiation have been observed to occur at incident power levels of 40 mW/cm/sup 2/corresponding to peak absorbed power densities of 32-36 W/kg. No change in behavior was indicated for incident and peak absorbed power densities of up to 20 mW/cm/sup 2/and 18 W/kg, respectively."
"Plane wave absorption characteristics of spherical models composed of six layers of dissipative dielectric media, representing various biological tissues found in human and animal heads, are examined in the frequency range of 0.1 to 10 GHz. The internal distribution of energy deposition inside the sphere is discussed with emphasis on strong localized heating (hot spot) effects."
"An interface has been developed to allow the measurement of sampled integral dose rate, defined as the change in integral dose during a particular time interval divided by that interval, absorbed by test animals as they are exposed in a waveguide to 2450 MHz CW microwave energy."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A current review of recent observation of interstellar molecules in the millimeter wavelength region will be presented."
"A ground-based radiometer for measuring the cosmic background radiation at a wavelength of 2. 1mm is described. The instrument, including black body radiators for calibration, is self-contained and operable in the automatic mode. Output data is punched on paper tape for later computer analysis."
"A superhetrodyne receiver operating at 230 GHz has been developed and tested. The hybrid mixer consists of a Schottky barrier diode in a rectangular waveguide and a stripline circuit whose performance was optimized using low frequency scaling techniques. Ultra-low capacitance, low-noise Schottky barrier diodes were developed for use in the mixer. The local oscillator signal is provided by a frequency doubler pumped by a 115 GHz klystron. The output of the doubler is coupled into the mixer using a cavity. The IF amplifier is a 1.4 GHz parametric amplifier with a noise figure of 0.8 dB. The total double sideband noise figure of the receiver is 13.4 dB corresponding to a noise temperature of 6000 K."
 "Several categories of millimeter wave observations in the range between approximately 20 and 3 mm are considered. First, the general area of current observations conducted with small antennas of low resolving power and simple radiometric receivers is reviewed. The type of solar information derived and its application are discussed. The second area considered is that of current high-resolution solar investigations from antennas with beam widths as small as 1 minute of arc. Finally, future ultra-high resolution work (<10 arc seconds) by interferometer techniques and the need for such work are discussed."
"Lists the sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"High-power microwave transistor amplifiers characteristically display amplitude and phase droop in the amplification of long RF pulses. The effects of these signal distortions on linear FM modulated waveforms are examined, with specific attention addressed to time sidelobes and main lobe width of a filtered, matched Hamming-weighted pulse."
"Mechanical and electrical design considerations, including performance trade-offs of microwave integrated circuit solid state active element array transceiver modules operating in the L-Band region will be presented."
"A computer aided design procedure is formulated for L-band transistor power amplifiers. The procedure incorporates a precision measurement technique for transistor impedances, a model for large step discontinuities in microstrip and an optimization routine for the direct realization of broadband matching circuits."
"Accelerated life tests using pulsed rf power conditions have been incorporated in order to evaluate the reliability of L-band power transistors for use in phased array RADAR programs. The basic philosophies, test procedures, and diagnostic techniques used will be explained and an explanation of how to use the data will be given."
"Investigations of RF induced burnout in silicon point contact and Schottky barrier mixer diodes at X-band frequencies are presented. SEM observation of diode chip condition was made through a \"window\" in the package prior to burnout. Comparisons of photographs before and after burnout were used to determine subtle changes in chip topography."
"There is a need for an S-band high power electronic phase shifter with low insertion loss and low cost for ground and ship-based phased array RADARS. Both diodes and ferrites are candidates for this application. Typically, the ferrite phase shifter is known to have low insertion loss; however, the recent use of wafer glassed PIN diodes removes the necessity for an expensive ceramic diode package and, furthermore, improves performance by eliminating diode package parasitic reactance. With these diodes, a complete 3-bit phase shifter having only 0.8 dB of average insertion loss has been made. This device has a rated power of 1 kW peak (the burnout level is 4 kW peak) using 120 microsecond-long pulses and 0.05 duty cycle. This paper describes the construction and testing of the phase shifter and a cost estimate for large quantities."
"The design of a heat-pipe cooled microwave waveguide window will be presented in this paper. The window is capable of handling megawatts of RF power in S-band (2.6 - 4.0 GHz) waveguide. The thickness and spacing of the windows, the window material characteristics, the thermal analysis of the heat pipe and the power handling capability will be addressed. The use of this technique in cooling other microwave components is discussed"
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper outlines the history of millimeter RADAR research at Georgia Tech during the past twenty years. During this period, numerous important developments have been achieved by investigators at Georgia Tech in the understanding and application of millimeter waves. Milestones in this work include 35 GHz propagation and scattering investigationa dating from the early fifties (results of which are still widely referenced); early application of 70 GHz, submillimeter radiometric and spectroscopic investigations beyound 300 GHz; development of unique, low-loss scanning antennas; and fabrication and testing of complete scanning RADAR systems at 70 GHz. Recent research includes investigations of scattering phenomena at all of the millimeter RADAR bands and the development of extremely high performance antennas at 70 and 95 GHz,"
"The Naval Electronics Laboratory Center (NELC, San Diego) has recently sponsored a three-day Conference on Millimeter Wave Techniques, 26-28 March 1974. The purpose of the Conference has been to coordinate and exchange the latest information on the states-of-the-art of millimeter wave techniques (20-100 GHz), to identify present and future areas of military applications and establish direct interaction among appropriate agencies and personnel."
"The program of the International Conference on Submillimeter Waves and Their Applications, held on June 5, 6, 7, 1974 in Atlanta, will be reviewed. The conference reflects the many advances which have been made in recent years as a result of the availability of improved submillimeter wave sources. Topics covered during the conference include sources (lasers, optically pumped lasers, and tunable sources), detectors, Fourier transform spectroscopy, and submillimeter applications to solid state investigations, plasma interactions, and cosmic and atmospheric physics."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Propagation experiments show the even-mode to have equal voltage-magnitudes and the odd-mode equal current-magnitudes. A new even-mode/odd-mode analysis is thus given for nonsymmetrical coupled-lines in non-homogeneous media, leading to the most general formulation of the 4 x 4 Y-matrix."
"Experimental and Theoretical results are presented demonstrating some novel properties of inhomogeneous coupled-line structures having large even-odd mode velocity ratios, e.g., a single inhomogeneous coupled-line filter section with an equiripple, 3-peak stopband response."
"The feasibility of a new, compact bandstop filter geometry is demonstrated theoretically and experimentally. The filter geometry is particularly suited for stripline and MIC fabrications in that grounding is not required for any part of the filter. Hybrid folded-line geometries allow the filter designer substantial flexibility in choosing a suitable shape factor without significantly effecting the filter's electrical characteristics. The filter geometry is suitable for narrow bandwidth (provided capacitive coupled stubs are used) to wide bandwidth applications."
"A structure which is important as an example of a spatially periodic medium for microwave propagation is analyzed theoretically, with rigorous consideration of its partial dielectric composition, translation and reflection symmetry properties, and field configuration relating to its use for electron-wave interaction."
"The proposed planar circuits in a waveguide and their design theory are presented together with the confirmation by experimental results. The application of this circuit to 12GHz down-converter is also shown."
"The analysis and experimental evaluation of a new harmonic mixer configuration capable of yielding lower conversion loss and circumventing the local oscillator noise sideband problem is presented."
"A single pole, fifty six throw PIN diode switch matrix has been designed for a G-Band cylindrical steerable beam antenna for the AN/USW-3(V) Integrated Target Control System. Bandwidth of the matrix is 20 percent, and CW power handling capability is greater than one-half kilowatt."
"Fast-acting pn junctions were developed to self-limit in less than 1 nsec at relatively high peak levels at X-band frequencies. The cascading of junctions in order of decreasing base region thickness behind high average power plasma limiters resulted in a passive receiver protector capable of limiting 1 nsec risetime multi-kilowatt RF pulses to 1 watt spike levels. It is also shown that 1 watt spikes of less than 10 nsec duration do not degrade the noise figure of balanced mixers employing small-junction (5 to 10 mu diameters) Schottky barrier diodes."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The concept of RADAR system cost reduction through the application of advanced technology is discussed. Emphasis is placed on the complex signal processing requirements of the Ballistic Missile Defense phased array RADAR and applications of surface wave devices which can simplify the system."
"The use of spread spectrum signaling structures, achieved either through instantaneous spreading techniques (e.g., pseudo-noise modulation) or piecewise spreading techniques (e.g., frequency hopping) is being proposed for an ever increasing number of electronic systems. These systems cover a wide field of applications, including analog and digital communications, position identification."
"Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) devices are now being manufactured for use in a number of electronic systerns, both military and commercial. The advantages of these devices include size, reproducibility, and new function capability. Reliability has not yet really been established nor has cost proven to be low. These devices are established, but the present and predicted market has been exaggerated. The eventual size of the SAW market will be due to a mix of one-of-a-kind high technology devices, moderate volume devices for the military market, and medium volume commercial devices. We conclude that the SAW device supplier will have to be versatile enough to provide a variety of devices including delay lines, matched filters, and bandpass filters ar various production levels with very Iittle high volume business."
"Two viable component technologies currently exist for implementing analog signal processing at VHF and UHF, namely, surface wave devices (SWD's) and charge transfer devices (CTD's). A review of each technology will be given along with relevant advantages, disadvantages, and ranges of important operating parameter for each. Under SWD's, primary emphasis will be given to the practical surface wave filters as well as to monolithic programmable matched filters using MOSFET detectors for surface wave taps on a silicon substrate, and the selectable bandpass filter in which programmable techniques are employed to obtain variable bandwidth and variable center frequency surface wave bandpass filters. The discussion of CTD's will include both charge coupled devices and bucket brigade devices (BED's). Application will be discussed for variable frequency bandpass filters, programmable matched filters, and variable tap weight transversal filters for adaptive filtering such as telephone channel equalization. A comparison of the present and projected advantages and also limitations of these two technologies will be discussed."
"Although high frequency sound waves find application throughout industrial processing and control, the applications which utilize microwave technology the most are those found in ultrasonic nondestructive testing. In the past, antenna theory and transmission line concepts have been used to describe ultrasonic transducer and their coupling to the parts to be tested. More recently, the more complex problems of mode conversion and dispersion by the medium in which the sound waves travel have received attention. The interaction of both shear and compressional waves with various possible defects is now being attacked rigorously with both experimental and theoretical tools. This paper will review recent advances in sound wave propagation in highly anisotropic media such as composites: the scattering of sound in solid media; the use of the normal modes of vibration of plates and bars for rapid inspection; computer aided acoustic holography; nonlinear effects for detecting internal stress; and dispersion of surface waves to analyze surface layers."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Hybrid integrated millimeter-wave sources at 30, 60 and 100 GHz have been built using a novel oscillator configuration. The new structure features a planar microstrip circuit in a conducting channel with an IMPATT diode which is inserted into the side wall of the channel RF efficiencies of 5% at an output power of a quarter watt CW have been measured both at 30 and 60 GHz. The ouput power at 100 GHz is 25 mW with an efficiency of 2%. The oscillators can be readily tuned over a 10% bandwidth."
"A modal analysis based on the transverse resonance concept is presented for a planar dielectric strip waveguide which exhibits good guiding properties and is particularly applicable to millimeter-wave integrated circuits. Numerical results are given for the dispersion characteristics and modal field distributions for high resistivity silicon substrate."
"A PIN attenuator and band-pass filter have been developed to demonstrate the advantages of integrated fin-line over microstrip at millimeter wavelengths. These advantages include lower loss, less stringent tolerances, and better compatibility with hybrid devices."
"New applications for millimeter waves have been developed and will be described. These include: high data rate communications, secure communications, low altitude RADAR, obstacle avoidance, imaging and fog penetration, radiometry and radiometric imaging."
"Quasi-optical diplexers have low-loss and high power-handling capability at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths. This paper reviews several types of quasi-optical diplexers. Theoretical as well as experimental results will be discussed."
"An expansion joint for a circular (TE/sub 01/) waveguide millimeter wave transmission system was fabricated for a 51 mm. diameter guide. The spurious mode level was measured from 50-70 GHz and found to be at least -40dB lower than the incident TE/sub 01/ level. The measured results compared favorably with an analytic prediction of a -50dB or lower spurious mode level from 40-110 GHz."
"A broadband low-pass filter in a multimode circular waveguide has been designed for the millimeter-wave waveguide transmission system. It provides high stopband insertion loss and good passband return loss with very low intrinsic as well as mode conversion loss. The physical realization of the filter is simple and economical."
"This paper describes a solid-state oscillator-quadri-phase modulator-amplifier module operating at four gigabits per second data-rate in V-band frequency range."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"An X-band MIC parametric amplifier using planar printed circuit techniques which result in low-cost and high reliability has been developed. Design of a microstrip four-port circulator and parametric amplifier stage on a low-loss YIG substrate, a 31-GHz microstrip pump source on teflon-fiber glass, and a pump source at the same frequency in integrated fin-line are described."
"To be reported in this paper are the results of a program for the design and development of an all solid state integrated circuit microwave parametric amplifier. This is a room temperature device with a design stressing low cost and high reliability."
"A parametric upconverter, suitable for cryogenic cooling in a low-noise receiver system, has been developed using microstrip circuit techniques. The prototype upconverter provides 2.4 to 3.0 dB of gain for input signals from 1.35 to 1.73 GHz with an output in the 4.6 to 4.98 GHz band. Less than 26 mW of pump power at 3.25 GHz is required for its operation. The cooled noise temperature of the upconverter is less than 7 K."
"The S-to K/sub a/-band varactor upconverter described herein provides significantly greater power output/bandwidth capability than obtainable from a single-sideband resistive modulator, leading to significant potential simplification in high-modulation-rate millimeter wave transmitters. This upconverter uses high quality varactors and a unique design to provide octave (2-4 GHz) instantaneous input bandwidth, and a flat (6-9 mW), 2 GHz-wide K/sub a/-band output power-frequency response with minimum K/sub a/-band pump power expenditure."
"A low noise, room temperature, wideband parametric amplifer is described which could be used for example in 12 GHz satellite ground station receivers. The amplifier has a gain of 26 dB, a 1/2 dB bandwidth of 660 MHz and noise temperature between 156 and 171/spl deg/K."
"A spacecraft 15-GHz parametric amplifier having a 500-MHz 1-dB bandwidth at 18-dB gain and 140 K noise temperature has been demonstrated. The 14-ounce unit incorporates the amplifier mount, 5-port circulators, varactor doubler, Gunn oscillator, and pump source. The maximum dc input of 11 watts includes stabilization over -5 to +50/spl deg/C in a thermal-vacuum environment."
"State-of-the-art millimeter wave paramp designs have been reduced to practice resulting in a miniaturized low-noise, all solid-state, K/sub a/-band amplifier designed to meet stringent electrical and mechanical specifications. An amplifier gain of 18 dB and a noise figure of 3.8 dB were achieved. This amplifier has application to future generation communications systems, and because of its small size and weight, to upgrading existing systems."
"Noise measurements have been made on an IMPATT pumped S-band parametric amplifier. For the properly adjusted pump, no significant increase in noise temperature was observed for interfering signal levels up to -40 dBm, 20 MHz from the noise measurement frequency."
"Composition and characteristics of both low noise down-converter and high efficiency up-converter for transmitter-receiver in the frequency range of 60 ~ 86 GHz are described in this report."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Surface wave multichannel bandpass filters such as the selectable filters, filter trees, or filter banks provide a large number of bandpass filter channels with relatively few transducers. Among major systems applications are frequency-hopped receivers, spread-spectrum equipment,and multichannel multiplex systems. Synthesis of more than 100 bandpass responses of varying center frequency and varying bandwidth with nominally 20 transducers is detailed."
"The application of the Diode-Correlator to electronically variable chirp signal correlation is described. Theory and experiments for this nonlinear tapped delay line device are presented which show that input chirp signal bandwidth may be arbitrarily variable up to a maximum specified by the tap sampling frequency."
"A doppler resolution filter is described which utilizes two acoustic-surface-wave tapped delay lines to perform an important RADAR signal processing function. The (-1 dB) bandwidth is 50 MHz and the delay increment for each tap is 5.0 mu sec, for a total of 16 taps. A novel LiNbO/sub 3/ temperature stabilization technique is reported for controlling the 80 mu sec delay line stability to /spl plusmn/2 x 10/sup -7/ over an ambient 10/spl deg/F range."
"The development of a chirp pulse pair DME system using surface wave devices (SWD) for pulse expansion and compression and as delay lines for time domain decoding is discussed. Pulse compression allows improvements in receiver sensitivity and frequency band channelization while SWD's provid size, weight, and performance improvements."
"Surface acoustic wave pulse expansion/compression filters have been developed at Hughes which have applications to modern RADAR systems. A review will be presented of two pertinent applications and the advantages of these devices will be emphasized."
"Straightforward analytic synthesis techniques are derived for correcting for diffraction in periodic acoustic surface wave filters having one apodized transducer. Quantitative experimental verification of the procedure is provided for a LiTaO/sub 3/ filter operating at 340 MHz."
"High performance bulk-wave transducers employing alternating half-wavelength thick piezoelectric and acoustically matched metal films have been fabricated to operate in Ku-band. Longitudinal-mode transducers employing zinc oxide and copper films fabricated on sapphire substrates yielded an untuned conversion loss of 25 dB from 8 to above 14 GHz."
"Measurements have been made of insertion and propagation loss of MSSW delay lines at microwave frequencies. Loss data are compared with recent theory and the frequency independent MSSW damping parameter lambda is calculated to be 0.88 x 10/sup 4/ Hz."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Direct RF measurement techniques are discussed in terms of their application to testing of long microwave transmission lines such as those used in heavily loaded microwave relay systems or high power RADAR systems. The return loss profile, a measure of transmission line quality, is introduced. Test results presented include data obtained by means of measurement techniques which permit inservice determination of the transmission line operating characteristics."
"Although conceptually straightforward, the application of existing automated network analyzers to the problem of adapter evaluation is inhibited by the limited accuracy of the detection process, the requirement for several impedance standards at each frequency, and software problems. This paper describes a simple hardware modification, which for adapter evaluation yields an order of magnitude improvement in accuracy. A alternative calibration procedure is outlined which exploits this improved accuracy potential, and which requires only one impedance standard."
"The power equation concept has been implemented into a multioctave precision bolometer unit calibration system employing automation techniques in conjunction with an automatic network analyzer system. The system was qualified as a calibration transfer system operating in the 2-12.4 GHz frequency range at 1 to 10 mW with a single measurement standard deviation of 0.2% to 1% from 2-10 GHz."
"Measurements taken in the frequency domain are translated into the time domain and plotted. Selected time slots are then reconstructed in the frequency domain revealing the VSWR of single connectors or circuit parameters without connector mismatch contribution."
"Automation has provided a coat-effective solution to test problems associated with solid-state local oscillators. Computer controlled measurement and analysis for L.O.'s, L-Band through Ku-Band, is provided by a single system. Improved testing provides positive feedback to design efforts and enhances device tuning capability."
"A technique for large signal characterization of microwave power transistors is described. A computer controlled apparatus is used to map contours of constant output power and efficiency, on a Smith Chart, for dynamic matching of both input and output circuits."
"A straightforward method yields accurate equal-ripple response for band-pass, low-pass, etc. , filters. The circuit can contain unequal line lengths, lumped elements, and discontinuity-effect representations. Examples include a 3.0-resonator band-pass design."
"A very important practical problem in microwave circuit design is the problem of optimal design subject to component tolerances. An approach which treats the component tolerance assignment as an integral part of computer-aided design is,. to the authors' knowledge, new to microwave engineers. Using recent nonlinear programming techniques and Dakin's branch and bound technique in conjunction with Fletcher's unconstrained minimization program, a variety of continuous and discrete tolerance problems may be solved. It is planned to make the full program available."
"A new Microwave Frequency Synthesizer has been developed that provides a spectrally pure microwave signal source for measurement of sophisticated components and sub-systems. Patent has been applied for on this unique synthesis at microwave technique."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A method to obtain the scattering matrix of a waveguide inhomogeneously loaded with ferrite is presented. Numerical results are obtained for the dielectric-loaded twin-slab phase shifter in rectangular waveguide."
"Hines has shown opportunity of using \"dynamic surface modes\" to realize non reciprocal devices in microwave range. At low frequencies the lowfield losses of the ferrite limit the working of these devices. The authors show that the \"magnetostatic surface mode\" allows the realization of non reciprocal devices working at frequencies lower than that of ferrite resonance. An isolator in the range 200 to 425 Mc/s is presented."
"This paper describes the mode of operation and the synthesis technique for a series of narrow-band tuneable circulators suitable for use in millimeter-wave system channel applications. Typical design and performance data are presented for circulators operating from 50 to 110 GHz."
"Half wavelength line resonators are employed to enlarge the bandwidth of a 50 GHz Y-circulator. The resonator has a very simple structure that a rectangular metal block is placed in a waveguide, The bandwidth is enlarged from 3.5 GHz to 5.5 GHz."
"This paper describes a broadband thin-film lumped-element circulator stabilized over a wide range of temperatures using a newly-developed ferrite material with a low temperature coefficient. The experimental circulator exhibits a bandwidth of about 420MHz over a wide temperature range of from -10/spl deg/C to 60/spl deg/c, in which VSWR and loss are less than 1.2 and 1.0dB, respectively."
"The general formula for 4-port nonreciprocal circuit is given. The effects of structures and physical properties of resonator on the characteristics of the circuit are investigated. The limitations of available frequency range are clarified."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The device under test is operated as an injection-locked oscillator. The dynamic conductance and susceptance of the device are obtained from the phase and amplitude response of the system."
"A general method for the determination of a linear, lumped-element equivalent circuit of any semiconductor device package in any microwave circuit mount is presented. Results are given for IMPATT and TRAPATT devices in coaxial and microstrip circuits, together with experimental validation of the results."
"Experimental results of the RF performance of 500 milliwatt CW, X-band IMPATT diode oscillators and 30 watt pulsed, S-band TRAPATT diode oscillators with large leakage current are presented. The leakage current was varied from 10 microamps to 10 milliamps by varying the dose rate of high energy electrons from a linear accelerator. Correlation obtained with device models indicate that the principal effects of leakage current on avalanche diode oscillator characteristics have been properly identified."
"Impedance characteristics of Read-profile IMPATT diodes are evaluated and amplifiers operating in the stable reflective mode have been designed based on the measured diode impedance. Power output of up to 4.5 Watts was obtained in a one stage single diode amplifier with a gain of 4.5 dB and an efficiency of 22 percent."
"The properties of double-drift Si IMPATTs designed for both pulsed and CW operation at frequencies between 8 and 18 GHz are discussed. Peak pulse powers greater than 18 watts at 10 GHz and 13.5 watts at 16.5 GHz were obtained for 800 nsec pulses at a 25% duty cycle with the junction temperature rise limited to 200/spl deg/C. For a similar temperature rise a CW power of 3.4 watts at 11.5 GHz was achieved. Conversion efficiencies were between 10.5 and 13.7%."
"K/sub a/-band GaAs p-n junction IMPATT diodes have been fabricated which have delivered 450 mW of added power with 9.6% efficiency at a junction temperature of 275/spl deg/C. Results of life tests predict operating life in excess of five years at this temperature,"
"Design and performance of a four-stage, 30 dB gain Gunn effect amplifier are described. The frequency response at different input power levels in given, as well as gain variation versus temperature. Saturated output power is 250 mW."
"Broadband mechanically tunable V-band (50-75 GHz) and W-band (75-110 GHz) IMPATT oscillators have been developed using packaged silicon p+n junction diodes. A tuning bandwidth of 20% with minimum output of over 50 mW is obtained in V-band and 6% bandwidth with minimum output over 25 mW is obtained in W-band. Higher power but more limited tuning bandwidth results from using other diode structures."
"Design consideration and experimental performance of a new transmission-cavity-controlled silicon IMPATT diode oscillator for millimeter wavelength are described. The oscillator has the frequency stability of 1 x 10/sup -4/ over temperature variation 0/spl deg/ - 50/spl deg/C and remarkably improved noise characteristics, and is free from troublesome moding problems. Discussion is made on the circuit design that satisfies frequency stabilization, noise reduction, mode stabilization and increase of circuit efficiency."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper presents a technical survey and status report of the microwave subsystems presently in use in the RF portion of modern high-speed phase-shift-keying communication systems, operating at data rates up to one gigabit per second.The principal subsystems reviewed will include four-phase phase-shift modulators of both the direct-frequency type plus up-converter; the four-phase demodulators; and the microwave circuits used to derive both carrier frequency (clock) and reference phase information from a received QPSK modulated carrier. The circuits and subsystems reviewed will be discussed at the level of the technology of the associated microwave components including details of the switching diodes, high FT transistors, video amplifiers, VCO's and special frequency multipliers involved."
"Recent improvements in rectifier devices in the form of specially designed GaAs Schottky-barrier diodes have been combined with rectifier circuit technology to produce receiving elements complete with low pass filtering at the microwave input and filtering at the output that operate in the 82-86 percent efficiency region. The combining of these elements in a rectenna array should produce an overall collection and rectification efficiency of over 80 percent."
"This paper describes a 4 GHz transmitter developed by using a low-level varactor up converter and a high-gain transistor injection locked amplifier. This transmitter, permitting obtain an RF output of 220 mW at an efficiency of more than 4% for a DC input of 5 W, is usable as a transmitter or exciter for radio relay of a maximum of 1380 channels."
"This paper describes the use of microwave integrated circuit technology in the design of a frequency agile, portable microwave repeater of light weight, compact construction without sacrifice of performance."
"The problems associated with linear FM/CW solid state RADARs are examined in detail, particularly sweep non-linearities. Design information is given which predicts the range sidelobe levels of such RADARs and methods of reducing these to acceptable levels are discussed."
"A solid-state microwave bidirectional repeater designed for use in a guided RADAR system is described. The RADAR is meant for detecting obstacles lying along the tracks in guided ground transportation systems. An echo-cancellation scheme is proposed for reducing the effect of reflections from impedance mismatches at repeater ports."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper introduces a new type of microwave amplifier which employs as its active element electron-bombarded semiconductor diodes. This amplifier is capable of achieving both high peak and high average powers. Useful characteristics include its broad bandwidth (several GHz are possible), high efficiency (in the 50 to 60 percent range), and very low harmonic distortion. These characteristics make this amplifier extremely attractive for use in a variety of communications, RADAR, and laboratory test applications."
"The dual-gate GaAs FET has a gain control characteristic at frequencies ten times higher than that of the Si MOS tetrode. This paper demonstrates the feasibility of the dual-gate GaAs FET for a microwave variable-gain amplifier."
"A 50-ohm microwave power transistor has been developed for high-efficiency broadband applications at lower S-Band frequencies. The device is capable of providing 10 watts of output power with 9 dB gain and greater than 0.50 collector efficiency in a 50-ohm system."
"New results on the design of broadband microwave transistor amplifiers are presented. These results include analytical design and computer-aided optimization techniques for microwave bipolar and FET amplifiers with prescribed transistor gain roll-off characteristics and practical realizations of broadband input and output matching networks. Several designs of octave-band microwave bipolar and GaAs FET amplifiers are presented to illustrate the general design techniques."
"Improved performance of S-band TRAPATT oscillators has been obtained by circuit optimization techniques. Experimental conversion efficiencies approaching the theoretical predictions have been obtained for n+pp+ oscillators. Significant improvement has also been obtained in the operation of p+nn+ diodes."
"Design considerations in building high-power wide-pulse-width TRAPATT diode amplifiers are outlined. Diode characteristics, package parasitic, and circuit impedance levels are discussed. Analytical and experimental investigations of the transient thermal behavior of TRAPATT diodes are presented. Performance characteristics of several MIC alumina substrate amplifiers are described."
"X-band n+p TRAPATT diodes have been fabricated and have shown better performance than their p+n complement. The low threshold power densities required to achieve the high efficiency oscillation have greatly enhanced their high duty and CW operation. The fabrication techniques for these high frequency devices and their performance in both pulsed and CW modes will be discussed."
"The design and performance of broad-band TRAPATT amplifiers in X-band are described along with a discussion of critical circuit parameters. Bandwidths of 10% and peak powers up to 38 watts have been achieved using coaxial circuits with single and multichip diodes."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The publication greatly appreciates the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"Presents the 1974 MTTS  Membership Application."
"Presents an index of the authors whose papers are published in the conference."
  "Millimeter wave receivers are discussed from the point of view of applications of line astronomy. A heterodyne bolometer system is described which has a noise temperature of 300/spl deg/K at 230 GHz. It is expected that these receivers will extend the range of radio line astronomy to about 500 GHz."
"This panel will discuss recent work done on three devices which are presently in the forefront of microwave technology. These devices are the GaAs IMPATT diodes for X and Ka-band, Gunn diodes for X and Ka-band, and Field Effect Transistors for C and X-band. Discussion by the panel will include a short presentation by each panel member highlighting recent advancements in his area. Presentations will include discussion of the basic devices and applications of devices. The panel will conclude with a summary of projected performance for the IMPATT, Gunn and FET devices."
 "Lists panel discussions held at the conference proceedings."
"Title page for Trends in Transponders in Commercial Communication Satellites.\""
"Presents the recipients of select MSS awards and new IEEE Fellows."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A procedure is described whereby narrow-band waveguide selective linear phase filters may be designed from a low-pass prototype linear phase network. The structure is comprised of a cascade connection of basic sections, each containing a direct-coupled cavity together with a dual-mode resonator. Each dual-mode resonator takes the form of a square guide mounted on the broad wall of the main rectangular guide and coupled to this guide by a small aperture. Explicit formulas for the susceptance of the coupling apertures and electrical lengths of the cavities are given in terms of the low-pass prototype."
"A theoretical investigation into the launching of dipolar surface waves on a dielectric tube is presented. The source under consideration is a transversely oriented point electric dipole situated on the axis of the tube. It is found that the source excites only the dominant HE/sub 11/ mode when the outer radius of the tube is sufficiently small. Phase and group characteristics as well as some field distributions are given for the source-free case; however, these are independent of the choice of the source, and are dependent only on the particular mode being excited. Surface-wave as well as radiated powers are obtained in terms of the current in the source dipole, and the launching efficiency of the surface waves is determined as a function of the tube radius, wall thickness, and permittivity of the material. Finally, comparisons are made between the dielectric tube and the solid rod which was investigated previously as possible surface-wave transmission lines, and also the launching efficiencies for these two cases."
"A class of novel frequency-selective devices, called stacked-crystal filters, is discussed in terms of a microwave network approach that leads to a systematic procedure for their analysis and design. These devices consist of two or more crystal plates that are stacked together, with thin electrodes being provided between some or all of the adjacent interfaces for the purpose of translating mechanical properties into electrical signals via piezoelectric coupling. In such a configuration, the electromechanical coupling that occurs at the plate surfaces produces selective interactions between the elastic modes in each crystal plate, as well as between these modes and all of the modes in the other plates included in a stack. A judicious combination of materials and dimensions can therefore provide a very wide range of desired filtering characteristics. For stacks with thin plates, only three thickness modes appear in each plate and they can be described in terms of three transmission lines; their coupling at the plate surfaces is then expressible in terms of ideal transformers that represent the mechanical junction between two adjacent plates. The interface electrodes appear as a set of terminals, to which are attached capacitators and another set of ideal transformers that represent the piezoelectric drive. In this manner, each plate can be rigorously described in terms of a well-defined network that serves as a building block. A stack consisting of any number of plates can therefore be regarded as the connection of an appropriate number of such building blocks, thus reducing a complicated mathematical problem to a systematic representation that can readily be handled by conventional techniques. A simple example of a two-layer quartz device operating on these principles is given. The simulated behavior obtained from the exact eqivalent network discloses that wide-band filters may be designed. Construction of such devices can be expected to yield robust, miniature filters of high performance possessing a large diversity of desired characteristics."
"The technique commonly employed to provide a wide-band surface-wave transducer with a specific conversion loss as a function of frequency uses the linear frequency-modulation (LFM) (quadratic-phase) design. This provides the necessary dispersion, and anodization is then employed to obtain the required conversion loss. In some applications the anodization presents complications in that the beam generated has nonuniform width, and diffraction and phase-front problems can result. An alternate technique is described that relies on varying the number of effective transducer elements as a function of frequency to provide the conversion-loss variation. As examples of this technique, a flat bandpass filter for a nonlinear convolver and a very large fractional-bandwidth transducer (with spectral weighting to provide sidelobe control) for a memory application are described."
"Resonators and waveguides containing a region of high dielectric constant are considered. The dielectric constant is first assumed to be infinite, but is later given a high, but finite value. Perturbation formulas are derived for the resulting shift in either the resonant frequency of the resonator or the wavenumber of the waveguide mode."
"The influence of the oscillator noise on the minimum detectable signal of a Doppler RADAR with a self-mixing IMPATT-diode oscillator is evaluated. For very short-range RADARs, it is the AM noise which limits the signal-to-noise ratio and thus the range."
"In terms of scattering parameters, the equation transducer power gain is shown to be capable of representation as a family of circles of constant gain from which the design of load and source terminations to achieve a restricted bandwidth can be obtained. This is an extension of an earlier approach which only allowed either load reflection coefficient or source reflection coefficient to be considered in a given design. Through the use of a specification statement of VSWR, it is shown how a marginal stability factor can be derived. From the study of the interaction between the input and output reflection coefficients, a detuning factor is analytically derived to correlate the interaction between the input and output reflection coefficients. Either of these factors can be chosen and used to select optimum input and output reflection coefficients which provide stable operation for an amplifying stage that is to employ a conditionally stable active element. An example using these factors is given."
"Experimental results obtained indicate that an excess phase shift is the most pronounced high-frequency parasitic effect resulting from a microstrip quarter-wave transformer impedance discontinuity. An empirically derived design-oriented model describing the dominant parasitic reactance associated with a microstrip impedance discontinuity at X-band frequencies is described. A description is also given of the dominant parasitic reactance associated with a number of commercially available coaxial-to-microstrip launchers."
"An accurate method is described for the measurement of the dielectric constant of liquids and solids. The dielectric material partially loads a slotted rectangular waveguide and the guide wavelength is measured for two different thicknesses of the dielectric. The guide wavelengths are related to the dielectric constant of the material through a characteristic equation which can be solved graphically or numerically. Some experimental results are obtained and found to be in close agreement with the values of the dielectric constant available in the literature."
"Finite difference method for the numerical solution of electromagnetic waveguide discontinuity problems is presented. The method of boundary relaxation is applied, using finite difference techniques in the nonuniform section of the waveguide and using a modal representation of the field in the uniform sections of the waveguide. To illustrate the process some two-dimensional diffraction problems in an electromagnetic waveguide with rectangular cross section are solved."
"The stripline-latching circulator with finite gap is analyzed theoretically. The normalized resonant frequencies of the first-order modes and the normalized circulation frequencies are obtained numerically for different values of the gapwidth and dielectric constant of the ceramic filling the nonmagnetic gap."
"Field configurations and resonant frequencies are analytically derived for some low-loss modes of a Fabry-Perot (FP) open resonator having curved rims along the edges. Since the low-loss modes are limited by a caustic surface, the problem can be simply treated by neglecting the diffraction due to the finite dimensions of the mirrors. The results are compared with those obtained by numerically solving the integral equation of the open cavity."
"Characteristics of the cross slot coupling aperture applicable to circularly polarized equalizer networks is presented. This coupling mechanism is analyzed and experimental results indicate good agreement between theory and practice. Extension of the single-cavity unit to multiple direct-coupled dual-mode equalizer networks is also discussed."
"A simple mode-compensation technique is introduced into the design of a pair of parallel-coupled microstrip lines and applied to a microstrip traveling-wave loop-directional filter. The compensated design of the filter shows a substantial improvement in its performance."
"The results of tests made on a novel coupler design suitable for MIC's are described. The design utilizes resistive termination of fields above the dielectric. Directivity of 14 dB was achieved with a /spl lambda//16 coupler at 3.6 GHz. Uses for this design technique are signal sampling where very flat coupling is not required."
"In the above paper the authors concluded, from a modal analysis of microstrip ferrite circulators, that the combination of two adjacent modes should be used for broad-banding circulators, which do not require quarter-wavelength matching transformers. Upon careful examination of their results, it can be shown that Miura and EIashimoto actually produced conventional below resonance circulators---transformers included."
 "Minimization of a least pth objective function of k variables using gradient methods. Interpolation brings the discrete problem closer to the continuous minimax approximation problem."
"To minimize an objective function of k variables defined as the generalized discrete least pth objective using gradient methods."
"This program performs a synthesis procedure for N-stepped asymmetric TEM-transmission-line directional couplers of any desired mean voltage coupling and coupling tolerance."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The beam-mode expansion method used in the discussions of the diffraction of a Gaussian wave beam through an aperture is applied to a system of two circular or square aperture stops, and the analytical expressions of the power transmission and conversion coefficients of a fundamental mode through the system are obtained. By using these expressions, the optimum incidence conditions that maximize the power transmission coefficient of the fundamental mode can be known. These conditions coincide formally with those obtained by Kogelnik and Yariv for an incident wave having a prolate spheroidal-wave function distribution. Both circular and square geometries can be analyzed in the same way."
"Electromagnetic-wave modes propagating in anisotropic slab waveguide are analyzed theoretically in detail. The propagation conditions are derived under which waves can propagate along the axis of the guide. A two-dimensional three-layered waveguiding structure consisting of an anisotropic dielectric slab coated on, or immersed in, isotropic surrounding substrate materials is considered as a typical configuration of the guide. Field-intensity distributions of the propagating modes and their propagation constants are obtained by numerical computations. Techniques for achieving the mode discrimination and the single-mode operation are given. Some possible applications in integrated optics are suggested."
"A theoretical analysis is presented of a periodic structure consisting of equally spaced perfectly conducting rings. The dispersion relation satisfied by the Werent modes of the shielded ring line is determined. This analysis shows that cylindrically symmetric modes identical with those of smooth guides and hybrid modes can travel in this periodical structure. The asymptotic values of the dispersion relation show the different properties of these hybrid modes. The EH/sub n1/ modes can be slow, fast, or can travel at light velocity according to the frequency. The EH/sub nq/ (q > 1) modes are fast modes and exchange their cutoff frequencies for particular values of the geometrical parameters of the structure. These theoretical predictions are verified experimentally by recording the dispersion characteristics of the first modes. For deflecting radio-frequency structures, the fundamental EH/sub 11/ mode is interesting. This deflection constant is measured on a /spl pi/ / 2 wave structure."
"This paper presents an extension of Vajnshtejn's approach for computing the resonance frequencies and loss factors of Fabry-Perot (FP) resonators at microwave frequencies. Numerical results are presented for FP resonators operated at microwave through millimeter frequency range."
"EM field measuring techniques, based on the modulated-scattering principle, are well established at microwave frequencies. The main difficulty in extending measurements to the millimeter-wave region is that of scaling the scatterer for operation at these wavelengths. The technique of modulated scattering described in this paper overcomes this limitation. A thin metallic dipole, attached to a vibrating nylon cord, forms the modulated scatterer which interacts with the electric field and gives rise to a phase-modulated reflected wave. The reflected wave is then combined with preference wave in a coherent detection system. The detected signal contains information about the amplitude and phase of the field at the midpoint of the dipole's vibration. An analysis of the technique is presented and the factors affecting the accuracy of measurement are fully discussed. It is shown how the measurement errors can be minimized. Amplitude and phase measurements, taken at a wavelength of 4.8mm, verify the validity and accuracy of the technique."
"A semicircular waveguide-type diplexer consisting of semicircular hybrids and high-pass filters as a band-splitting filter for millimeter-wave multiplexing-demultiplexing networks has been newly developed. The construction and the operating principles of the diplexer are described; the design method and the experimental results are also discussed. The branching characteristics for a diplexer for dividing the frequency band 43.4-86.8 GHz into two equal parts have proved tolerably flat, with the resulting branching loss amounting to as small as 1.2-1.4 dB. The total length for the experimental model is 1.17 m, which is one-half to one-third shorter than the conventional Michelson interferometer-type diplexer. It is concluded that the semicircular waveguide-type diplexer can be effectively used for millimeter-wave waveguide transmission system."
"A new exact design theory for a nondegenerate parametric amplifier with double-tuned signal circuit and single-tuned idler circuit is described. If the resistance of the signal circuit, which is neglected in previous papers, is considered, there exists a frequency band in which the amplifier gain is positive. In this paper the band characteristics of the gain are related to this frequency band. Slope parameters of the idler and signal circuits are normalized by the slope parameters which are associated with the diode itself. These normalized slope parameters are used to relate the actual circuit and gain-bandwidth characteristics. The slope parameter of the external signal resonator is related to the negative slope parameter of the diode, and bounds on this ratio are given over which stable amplification is possible. A design table which gives the coupling ratio and slope parameter of the external signal resonator is derived by computer calculation. Experiments were made at 19 GHz. Positive-gain bandwidth was around 4.0 GHz, and flat bandwidth at 10-dB gain was 2.4 GHz. The ratio of these bandwidths coincided with the theory."
"Two waves traveling in opposite directions in a Iossless waveguide, which are coupled by a random coupling function, are considered. It is assumed that no power is allowed to enter the reflected wave at the output end of the guide. The asymptotic value of the expected output power in the incident wave, when the input power is prescribed, is calculated in the limit of weak coupling and a long guide. The result is compared with that predicted by Marcuse on the basis of coupled power equations. It is found that the two results are quite close, so long as the expected output power is, greater than half the input power, but past that point Marcuse's approximation to the asymptotic value becomes increasingly poorer as the waveguide length increases: Some computer simulated results obtained by Marcuse tend to confirm the validlty of the asymptotic value of the expected output power."
"Characteristics of wave propagation inside a ridged circular waveguide are studied. The waveguide is a hollow, conducting circular cylinder with a pair of semicircular conducting ridges diametrically attached to its inside wall. Results of a perturbation analysis suggest that in this device a lower attenuation and a wider bandwidth than those of a conventional circular waveguide can be achieved. Certain numerical results are graphically presented."
"Magnetostatic surface waves propagating along the ferrite slab adjacent to a semiconductor are discussed in this paper. Our numerical results indicate that the conductivity of the semiconductor plays an important role in the determination of the dispersion relation in the case of nondrifting carriers. The backward wave appears for a finite value of the conductivity."
"Application of a coupled-mode formalism to longitudinally magnetized ferrite phase shifters provides an explanation of the increase or decrease of insertion phase with increasing magnetization which is observed in different types of phase shifters. If the higher order mode is TM, the phase shift increases with magnetization while the reverse happens if the higher order mode is TE. The generalized telegraphists' equations are used to analyze the TEM phase shifter. The maximum phase shift that can be obtained is determined by the effective permeability of the ferrite. However, coupling to higher order cutoff modes reduces the phase shift significantly."
"The four scattering parameters, operating in the pinch-off mode, of a Schottky-barrier-gate FET (MESFET) are investigated with the aid of an appropriate equivalent circuit. The dependence of the electron drift velocity on the electric field of the channel has been simplified to be piecewise linear by Turner and Wilson. Hot electron effects have therefore been neglected. The four noise parameters of the device have also been computed using the noise sources of van der Ziel. All computed parameters are compared with their measured values in the frequency region 0.5-4 GHz. Investigated GaAs FET's are commercial units."
"A measuring system for the simultaneous determination of amplitude and phase distributions of EM fields is described. The system employs the vibrating-dipole technique, which is based on the principle of modulated scattering. The phase-modulated wave scattered by the vibrating dipole contains information about the amplitude and phase of the EM field at the midpoint of the dipole's vibration. The system has been made automatic by the inclusion of a servo loop. The measured free-space distributions compare well with those calculated from theory."
"Recent work to achieve high output power of fundamental mode Gunn-effect oscillators at frequencies ranging from 25 to 71 GHz is described. Ambient powers of 370 mW at 6.7-percent efficiency at 25 GHz, 260 mW at 4.5-percent efficiency at 38 GHz 150 mW at 4-percent efficiency at 54 GHz, and 30 mW at 1-percent efficiency at 71 GHz were obtained from single-diode structures. Combining two diodes in a push-pull circuit yielded 400 mW at 3.5-percent efficiency at 32 GHz and 260 mW at 4.0-percent efficiency at 42 GHz. This represents some of the highest powers and efficiencies reported to date from millimeter-wave Gunn-effect oscillators."
"The utility of a quarter-wave transformer for precise measurement of complex microwave conductivity of semiconductors has been demonstrated. It has been shown for a chosen conductivity of 9 /spl Omega//spl dot/cm that the improvement in measurement accuracy is nearly by a factor of 3 over the conventional reflection measurement using a Teflon transformer."
"A derivation is presented for the signal-to-noise ratio of negative-conductance amplifiers and oscillators in FM/frequency division multiplexing (FDM) communications applications. Results indicate the limiting value of signal-to-noise ratio depends on the semiconductor properties and channel loading only. This means circuit adjustments, such as Q, cannot increase the signal-to-noise ratio without bounds. Typical specifications are given. Limiting values of signal-to-noise ratio for Gunn and Si IMPATT devices are given in typical applications. Results indicate that Gunn devices have a clear advantage over Si IMPATT'S in a signal-to-noise sense."
"It is shown that the solutions for wave propagation on a nonuniform transmission Iine, recently proposed by Bergquist, are alternative forms of, or easily derivable from, the results of Protonotarios and Wing, given earlier."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "The panel members were asked to respond to the Guest Editor's questions, given below. They were then given copies of each other's comments and asked to respond with a second round of opinions."
"Two of the numerical methods most widely used in solving the set of partial differential transport equations for holes, electrons, and electric field in semiconductor devices and the various numerical instability phenomena which can be encountered are described in detail. Also presented are approaches, using these methods, to calculate dc static solutions and small-signal solutions, and to simulate devices in voltage-driven, current-driven, and circuit-loaded operation. Sample results are given for each mode of operation for the case of Si avalanche-diode oscillators. The numerical methods and approaches are those developed at our laboratory and sufficient detail is presented to permit the development of similar Fortran codes by others."
"Computer-aided determination and optimization of lumped elements of equivalent circuits based on experimental data, application to the lumped equivalent circuit including noise sources of microwave bipolar transistors, and calculation of gain, noise, and stability from the said computer simulation are dealt with. As an example, a special microwave transistor mount and aspects of a new rugged metal-ceramic package are considered."
"The short-circuit admittance parameters for a silicon Schottky-barrier field-effect transistor (SBFET) fabricated on a high-resistivity substrate are calculated from first principles ignoring the effects of minority carriers. The calculations show the maximum frequency of oscillation for a device with a 1-/spl mu/m gate to be 17.9 GHz, neglecting the parasitic associated with the contact metallizations, and 14.7 GHz when the parasitic are included. In order to describe the dynamic behavior of the device, the static properties must first be obtained. The simultaneous solution of Poisson's equation and the continuity equation, both in two dimensions, gives the static charge and potential distribution in the device. The effects of a field-dependent mobility are included in the continuity equation. Using the results of static two-dimensional solutions, a one-dimensional device model is developed that permits the dynamic device behavior to be described by a one-dimensional linear ordinary differential equation. By solving this equation under appropriate boundary conditions, the device y parameters are found as functions of frequency. Calculated results are shown to be in good agreement with published experimental data."
"Passive linear bilateral microwave devices principally include guided wave transmission structures, their junctions, and interconnections, as well as such complex devices as resonant cavities and planar networks. The computational methods for analyzing the behavior of this class of structures and for characterizing them for purposes of network design are brieily reviewed."
"For waveguides whose geometries are described as coordinate surfaces in circular polar coordinates, a finite-element method is used to derive base matrices over a triangular element in the polar geometry. These matrices are used to solve,mode problems in circular, sector, double-ridged circular, and spiral waveguides. The discussion is mainly in terms of cutoff frequency, bandwidth, and convergence."
"A method of applying the transmission-line matrix method to inhomogeneous waveguide structures is described. The technique uses open-circuit stubs of variable characteristic impedance at each node in the matrix, thereby providing an analog for a dielectric. LSE and LSM modes in rectangular waveguides, and problems involving a step of dielectric are solved. Results are given in terms of the cutoff frequency and field pattern for continuous waveguides, and the waveguide input impedance for scattering problems."
"Multiconductor or multiwire arrangements find many applications in electronic systems. Examples are interconnections between digital circuits or integrated microwave circuits. Equivalent circuit models are derived here from an integral equation to establish an electrical description of the physical geometry. The models, which are appropriately called partial element equivalent circuits (PEEC), are general in that they include losses. Models of different complexity can be constructed, to suit the application at hand."
"An iterative approach to the finite-element method is presented. Several finite-element formulations are presented for the Laplace, Poisson, and Helmholtz equations. These formulations permit iterative solutions. The convergence of the vector sequences generated by the iterative method is accelerated using successive extrapolation and other methods. Accuracy and convergence of the solutions are discussed."
"An approximate technique for solving eigenvalue equations, the variation-iteration method,is commonly used in theoretics physics. A previous paper presented the application of this method to the scalar case of a dielectric slab loaded rectangular waveguide. This paper presents its extension to the complex vector case of a lossy dielectric insert loaded waveguide. Starting from an initial trial function, iterates are calculated in which the components relative to the unwanted eigenfunctions are eliminated. Both an upper and a lower bound for the unknown eigenvalues are available. Each iterate is the solution of a system of algebraic simultaneous equations. This system is solved by the successive overrelaxation method using an automatically computed optimal accelerating factor. An extrapolation technique further accelerates the convergence. This yields the attenuation and propagation coefficients for the dominant as well as several other modes, together with the electric and magnetic field configurations."
"A variational solution of the Fredholm integral equation of the first kind resulting from Laplace's equation with Dirichlet boundary conditions is discussed. Positive-definiteness of the integral operator is used to guarantee convergence. The square parallel plate capacitor is given as an example with several different types of trial functions. Special singular functions to handle known field behavior are shown to result in improved accuracy with reduced computing cost. The air-dielectric interface condition is related to a general Neumann-mixed boundary condition for which a variational method with a positive-definite integral operator is presented. Multiple boundary conditions are handled by mutually constraining separate variational expressions for each boundary condition. A T-shaped conductor on a dielectric slab, representative of quasi-static solutions of microstrip discontinuities, is presented as a three-dimensional example with multiple boundary conditions. Generally, it is shown how the finite-element method for the solution of partial differential equations may be extended to handle integral equation formulations."
"The most relevant techniques that have either found or should find useful application in analyzing microwave circuit performances in the frequency domain are surveyed. The particular needs of the microwave engineer are briefly discussed. Circuit equation formulations in terms of voltages and currents and wave variables are presented and the solution of the set of circuit equations by sparse-matrix techniques is illustrated. Methods based on multiport connection are also reviewed. The techniques for computing the first- and second-order sensitivity are illustrated and a comparison is made between the direct method and the transpose-matrix method, which is in certain cases similar to the method based on the adjoint circuit."
"Linear microwave circuit analysis by sparse-matrix techniques is discussed. Optimum equation ordering and pivoting are proposed to reduce execution time, storage requirement, and to improve accuracy. A direct first-order sensitivity method using sparse-matrix techniques is proposed and compared with the adjoint network method. Details on the implemented program and a numerical example are given."
"Nonlinear large-signal analysis of local current shape and linear small-signal analysis of small-signal products are made for resistive mixers. Iteration adapted from Newton's method was used in the nonlinear analysis. The conjugate match method was used in the linear analysis to find the minimum conversion loss. These theories were applied to a new type spurious suppressed mixer and a reliable computer simulation was made."
"Oscillographic plots of various time-domain responses of microwave networks are generated by computer simulation, based upon measurements taken in the frequency domain. Frequency-response data are obtained with a computer-controlled automatic network analyzer, this information is processed in an associated computer, and selected time-domain responses are plotted immediately on an x-y recorder. Voltage versus time responses have been simulated for various excitations includlng impulse, step, and pulse-modulated RF waves. When impedance data are used, the plots are interpretable as from a time-domain reflectometer with high precision, high sensitivity, and high resolving power. As an oscillograph the rise time may be as short as 0.04 ns. In transmission 70 dB or more loss can be tolerated. In reflection measurements, the results are interpretable for discrete discontinuities with 40 dB or more return loss, and with separations on the order of 1 cm in space. In certain types of circuits, time-domain data can be used to reconstruct the frequency-domain response data in an approximate manner for separate parts of a network without separate measurements. In this manner, the interference of generator, load, and transducer mismatches can be substantially reduced."
"De-embedding is the process of deducing the impedance of a device under test from measurernents made at a distance, when the electrical properties of the intervening structure are known. Unterminating is the process of deducing the electrical properties of the intervening structure from a series of measurements with known embedded devices. The mathematical steps necessary for de-embedding and unterminating with theoretically redundant measurements in order to minimize the effect of experimental errors."
"The main objective of this paper is to give a survey of recent automatic optimization methods which either have found or should find useful application in the area of computer-aided network design. Huang's family of algorithms for unconstrained optimization is reviewed. The Fletcher method and the Charalambous family of algorithms for unconstrained optimization, which abandon the \"full linear search,\" are presented. Special emphasis is devoted to algorithms by Bandler and Charalambous on least pth and minimax optimization which can be readily programmed and used. Due to work by Bandler and Charalambous, it is shown how constrained minimax problems can be solved exactly as unconstrained minimax problems by using a new approach to nonlinear programming. The application of minirnax optimization on the design of lumped-distributed active filters, problems for future investigation, and a select list of references are also included."
"A user-oriented computer program package is presented that will analyze and optimize certain cascaded linear time-invariant electrical networks such as microwave filters and all-pass networks. The program is organized in such a way that future additions or deletions of performance specifications, constraints, optimization methods, and circuit elements are readily implemented. Presently, a variety of two-port lumped and distributed elements, all-pass C-type sections and all-pass D-type sections can be treated as fixed or variable between upper and lower bounds on the parameters. Adjoint network sensitivity formulas are incorporated. The Fletcher-Powell or Fletcher optimization methods can be called to optimize in the least pth sense of Bandler and Charalambous an objective function incorporating simultaneously, at the user's discretion, input reflection coefficient, insertion loss, group delay, and the parameter constraints (if any). The program is particularly flexible in the way in which response specifications are handled at any number of, in general, overlapping frequency bands. The package, which is written in Fortran IV, has been tested on a CDC 6400 digital computer."
"A computer program for the analysis and design of distributed lumped circuits, including microwave integrated circuits, is discussed. It is capable of frequency-domain analysis, optimization of transducer power gain, reflection coefficient, and/or noise figure. Also, the program can compute the return difference with respect to any admittance parameter so that the stability of the circuit can be determined by the Nyquist criterion. The program handles complex impedances, resistors, capacitors, inductors, transmission lines, independent current sources and grounded voltage sources, voltage-controlled current sources, and multiport elements, such as transistors and circulators, described by their scattering or admittance parameters. It contains a free-format input. The implementation is based on the indefinite admittance matrix, sparse matrices, adjoint networks, the Fletcher-Powell or Fletcher minimization algorithm, and Bode's feedback theory."
"A method is proposed for the synthesis of continuous nonuniform waveguides with rectangular cross section so that they show desired electromagnetic properties for discrete frequencies when excited by the TE/sub 10/ mode. Starting from a uniform structure with known properties, the shape of the nonuniform waveguide is attained step by step by small systematic deformations. To show the feasibility of the method proposed, the mathematical formalism and numerical results are presented for reactive one-ports and filters with simple properties. In these cases, the problem is reduced to the solution of an equivalent resonator problem, i.e., a nonuniform waveguide resonator is developed for which a certain set of resonance modes occur at desired frequencies."
"A comparison of methods for the numerical solution of the hollow waveguide problem is presented in tabular form. Another table lists waveguide shapes and their cutoff characteristics that have been presented in the literature. These tables and the bibliography afford an aid towards the selection of a method."
"The computation of surface waveguide modes is facilitated by reducing the surface waveguide field problem to a conventional eigenvalue problem that has no spurious solutions. This is achieved by formulating the field problem in terms of transverse field components and by using impedance boundary conditions on an auxiliary boundary with a specified value of the exterior cutoff wavenumber."
"A measurement on a standard termination provides sufficient information for making corrected measurements through an adapter, if the dissipative loss of the adapter can be neglected. This approximation often gives more consistent results than calibration techniques that require highly reflecting standards."
"A procedure based on an analysis algorithm and practical rules is described for the design of waveguide multiplexer. Simple rules, which enable the designer to quickly find a near-optimum solution in a small number of iteration steps, are given. An example of a 6-channel communications multiplexer, which utilizes narrow-bandpass elliptic function waveguide filters, is also included."
"A technique for the optimization and sensitivity analysis of broad classes of electrical networks is illustrated. The method utilizes the exact algebraic partial derivatives of functions with respect to any desired independent variable. This completely automated technique has the obvious advantage that the derivatives of any circuit response function with respect to any desired component parameter may be obtained with no additional analytical effort on the part of the designer. Several examples are given to illustrate the procedure."
"Automatic network analyzer group-delay measurements are improved by simple hardware substitutions, more exact frequency calculations, and a discounting of group-delay variations that fail to persist through several settings of the reference path length."
"General-purpose microwave network-analysis programs are typically organized on a time-shared basis using large-scale computers. As minicomputers become widely available, it is desirable to have a compatible general-purpose analysis program to assist the microwave engineer in his design efforts. The purpose of this letter is to describe the implementation of one such program for machines with 4K words of memory. Although MICTPT was designed for a Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-5 computer with 4K (4096) of 12-bit word core storage, the approaches used are applicable to any similar small computer."
"Computation of the relative complex permittivity components /spl epsilon//sub r/' and /spl epsilon//sub r/'' loss tangent, and conductivity from measurements data on materials in coaxial, rectangular, or cylindrical waveguides."
"The complex program is a package of subroutines that minimizes a nonlinear objective function subject to nonlinear inequality constraints."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
 "The program analyzes and optimizes certain cascaded linear time-invariant networks in the frequency domain made up of two-port elements such as resistors, inductors, capacitors, Iossless transmission lines, lossless short-circuited, and open-circuited transmission line stubs, series and parallel RLC resonant circuits and microwave allpass C- and D-sections."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A restatement of mathematical considerations of TEM modes on an n-wire line is presented. An n-wire line inside a shielding conductor or over a ground plane supports n independent TEM modes which can be determined by obtaining eigenvectors on the n-wire line deduced from the characteristic admittance matrix. It is shown conclusively that the TEM modes are determined by the geometrical arrangement of the n wires as well as by the manner of excitation on the n-wire line. Power division ratios on each wire and terminating admittances for output ports of each wire are also discussed, and it is shown that one can excite a TEM mode similar to an even mode and n - 1 TEM modes, each of which resembles an odd mode, on the n-wire line."
"Approximation methods are used to calculate the phase shift and loss for phase shifters containing ferrite and dielectric, with a uniform dielectric constant throughout the waveguide. If the RF magnetic loss in the ferrite is a significant fraction of the total loss, the overall performance of a phase shifter that is partially filled with ferrite may be superior to the fully filled case. Theoretical results relating performance to the amount of partial filling are presented for Faraday rotators in square and circular waveguides and a twin-slab phase shifter. Experimental results were obtained for a circular Faraday rotator."
"A new method of measuring complex dielectric constants at microwave frequencies by introducing a resonant circuit comprised of the experimental sample within a waveguide is described. The theoretical evaluation of working equations for the complex dielectric constant under the quasi-stationary distribution of the field within the sample is given. In this case, the equations are derived 1) considering the elements as lumped parameters and 2) distributed parameters are treated by means of transmission line equations. The two sets of equations are compared. The working equations are also derived for the condition when the experimental sample takes up the form of a radial line. The accuracy of determining the parameters is computed and experimental results are provided as verification of the applicability of the given method."
"A general approach for deriving quasi-static equivalent circuits for discontinuities in microstrip lines is presented. The formulation is based upon Galerkin's method applied in the Fourier transform domain. Numerical results are presented for a number of different configurations and compared with data available from other sources."
"A technique is presented which is applicable to any uniform coupled open transmission lines such as coupled optical integrated circuits. The proposed technique is as follows. The electromagnetic fields of the wave propagating along a coupled line is expressed in terms of a linear combination of the fields associated with the individual lines, as a zero-order approximation. Inserting this trial field description into the variational expression for the propagation constant beta and applying the well-known Rayleigh-Ritz's procedure, accurate solutions for the propagation constants of the coupled lines are obtained. This method can be applied generally to analyze coupled structures in microwave, millimeter wave, and optical wave circuitry. As an illustrative example, the coupling between two optical transmission lines consisting of lens-like dielectric media has been analyzed by means of the proposed technique."
"A radiometer for the remote measurement of sea surface temperature is described. Two requirements are necessary for the attainment of an absolute accuracy of 1 or 2 K in molecular temperature. Although the first is inappropriate for discussion here, it is clear that corrections must be developed to account for perturbations caused by surface effects (roughness, foaming, and salinity changes) and for atmospheric effects (absorption and scattering). The second requirement, namely, the development of an instrument capable not only of high relative accuracy (i.e., resolution) but also of high absolute precision, is the subject of this paper. The concepts underlying the design of an instrument capable of an absolute accuracy of a few tenths degrees Kelvin in the measurement of brightness temperature at S band are described. The role of the antenna is discussed and the importance of high ohmic and beam efficiencies is stressed. The hardware itself is fully described, along with an outline on the design of a unique cryogenically cooled termination used to calibrate the whole radiometer, including antenna. Finally, some test results are presented that show that the design goals for the instrument have been closely approached."
"It has been shown that the boundary conditions strongly influence the propagation characteristics of surface magnetostatic waves propagating in the direction of the external dc magnetic field; the frequency spectrum narrows and the cutoff wavenumber decreases continuously as the gap between the sample surfaces and metal walls increases in the direction in which the magnetic potential decays exponentially. Experimental results obtained at X band agree well with the theoretical estimates."
"A new class of waveguide filters is introduced, constructed from several thin plates sandwiched together. The combination of alternate plates having large and small rectangular apertures leads to a propagating structure which possesses a bandstop response and prescribed characteristic impedance. This basic element may be used as a simple compact bandstop filter, particularly where the main passband and stopband are well separated, such as in harmonic rejection. For filters with many stopbands, combinations of several waveguide sandwich filter elements are used to provide the main passband and the required attenuation characteristics in the prescribed stopbands. Although the filter is ideally suited for bandstop filtering due to its small size, low cost, low loss, and high power handling capability, additional applications to bandpass filtering and dispersive delay line operation are also cited."
"Since most junctions do not use the full available magnetic splitting of the ferrite material, it is possible to replace part of it by a dielectric. The theoretical and experimental development of such composite stripline circulators using ferrite disks surrounded by dielectric rings is given in this paper. Theoretical calculations and experimental results on the circulation frequency, gyrator admittance, and split frequencies of such circulators are included. The case of a partially magnetized ferrite disk on a ferrite substrate is treated separately. The suscteptance slope parameter of this circulator geometry is also derived and measured. The results obtained in this paper show to what extent the ferrite disk behaves as a dielectric at the edge of the disk. The geometry leads to considerable saving in ferrite material, which is particularly important in UHF circulators. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theory."
"A new system is proposed for millimeter-wave integrated circuits. It is suggested that high-resistivity silicon be used as a medium for a dielectric waveguide. With the advent of high-resistivity silicon, propagation can occur with relatively low Ioss. Furthermore, since the medium is a semiconductor compatible with active devices, it is proposed that active devices can be constructed directly in the semiconductor dielectric guide or appendaged directly on the surface. The basic approach is similar to that used in integrated optics, except that the medium for millimeter-wave guidance is a semiconductor and the control devices rely on conductivity modulation rather than on electrooptical effects. Some particular devices suggested are oscillator, mechanical and electronic phase shifters, amplitude modulators (switches), and detectors. The first of such devices investigated has been the electronic phase shtiter. Related theory and experiments are reported here. In addition, preliminary results on oscillators imbedded in a dielectric resonator are presented."
"A distributed RC circuit model is used to describe an interdigital electrode transducer (IDT) having finite conduction in the electrode stripes. The distributed circuit is described by a set of differential equations whose solutions yield the current and voltage distributions along the aperture of the IDT. It is found that the electrode resistance causes a distortion of the excited wave amplitude and phase due to the nonuniform voltage and current distribution. An equivalent circuit for the terminal properties is also derived which illustrates the effects of conduction loss. The theory is also used to predict electrode efficiency, effective aperture weighting, and phase shift in weighted arrays."
"The synthesis of narrow-bandpass waveguide filters having flat group delay and optimum-amplitude characteristics is described. The design utilizes either single- or dual-mode waveguide cavities. Experimental results for a 40-MHz-bandwidth filter centered at 4 GHz show excellent agreement with theory."
"Growth rate and feed consumption depressions were observed in groups of 25 day-old male chicks when exposed in metal cage environments to the following CW fields: 1) a UHF wave at 880 MHz in a very low-Q cavity resonator energized by a 220-mW power source (values of electric field square E/sup 2/ divided by the intrinsic impedance of free space /spl eta/ = 377 /spl Omega/ were measured resulting in a maximum value of 550 /spl mu/W/cm/sup 2/ with a \"hot spot\" of 900 /spl mu/W/cm/sup 2/); 2) a VHF wave at 260 MHz in a very low-Q cavity resonator, energized by a 220-mW power source (values of E/sup 2/ / /spl eta/ were not measured, but the values should have been similar to those measured in the UHF facility); 3) an extremely low frequency (ELF) electric field at either 45 or 60 Hz with calculated electric field strength of 3500 V/m; 4) an ELF magnetic field at either 45 or 60 Hz with 1.3 G was measured. Adrenal glands of chicks exposed to the 880-MHz wave were compared with those from control chicks. Smaller adrenals were observed in the treated group of birds. Growth depression was also observed in rats exposed to the UHF field at 880 MHz. Mean adrenal weights of the treated and control rats did not differ significantly; however, spleen and thymus weights of the treated rats were notably larger. Potential causes of the growth responses observed are discussed."
"Bench test studies of conventional temperature transducers in microwave environments have demonstrated artifacts responsible for errors of several degrees centigrade. These findings led to a program for the development of systematic test procedures and the design of electrodes with artifact reduced to 0.1/spl deg/C."
"A microwave oscillator noise measuring system employing a YIG discriminator has been developed. The resonant frequency of the YIG discriminator is automatically tuned to follow the drift of the carrier frequency of the oscillator under test. This arrangement permits an accurate measurement of FM noise spectra near the carrier frequency as close as several tens of Hz off the carrier. The drift of the carrier frequency is measured over a wide range by monitoring fluctuations of the feedback current in the compensation coil that supports a part of the biasing magnetic field for the YIG discriminator."
"A method is described for the solution of the electromagnetic field inside resonant cavities and waveguides of arbitrary shape, whether homogeneously or inhomogeneously filled. The method, suitably programmed for use with a digital computer, is based on the direct discretization of the Maxwell equations in integral form. Since the method works with the components of the electromagnetic field, the numerical solution directly gives the distributions of the field in the structure, in addition to the resonant frequencies of cavities or the propagation constants of waveguides. Some numerical applications of the method are given."
"This short paper summarizes the design and performance of a low-noise 5-mm mixer constructed in oversized microstrip---a new type of transmission line which is superior to microstrip at millimeter wavelengths. Includlng a 5-dB IF contribution, the measured noise figure was 9-10.5 dB over a wide range of LO frequencies and drive levels."
"A 12-GHz low-noise converter consisting of a planar circuit mounted in waveguide is described. This circuit consists of a metal sheet with proper patterns that is inserted in the middle of a waveguide parallel to the E plane. All circuit elements required for the converter are pressed or etched. This circuit is very useful for low-cost mass production and good performance. A measured noise figure of 4.5 dB was obtained with a 12-GHz signal frequency and a 420-MHz intermediate frequency."
"Computationally efficient numerical methods for determining the frequency response of uniform transmission lines consisting of a large number of mutually coupled conductors in homogeneous and inhomogeneous media, and illuminated by an electromagnetic (EM) field are presented."
"Formulas are presented for the direct calculation of the scattering parameters of a linear two-port, when it is measured by an imperfect network analyzer. Depending on the hardware configuration of the test set, the measurement system is represented by one of two flowgraph models. In both models presented, leakage paths are included. The error parameters, i.e., the scattering parameters of the measuring system, are six respective ten complex numbers for each frequency of interest. A calibration procedure, where measurements are made on standards, will determine the error parameters. One of many possible calibration procedures is briefly described. By using explicit formulas instead of iterative methods, the computing time for the correction of the scattering parameters of the unknown two-port is significantly reduced. The addition of leakage paths will only have a minor effect on computational complexity while measurement accuracy will increase."
"Optimum procedures for designing microwave acoustic surface wave delay lines are given. Combined beam steering fraction loss curves are provided as a function of the basic material parameter, the slope of the power flow angle, to allow optimum choice of material for a given application. Methods for designing uniform periodic interdigital transducers including finger ohmic loss, lossy tuning elements, and parasitic capacitance have been extended to account for beam steering and diffraction."
"This short paper describes a proposed structure of a broad-band electrooptical modulator and an application of existing microstrip analysis programs to determine dimensions of the structure for a broad-band property. Results of numerical computations indicate that it is possible to obtain a broad-band modulator by using LiNbO/sub 3/ or LiTaO/sub 3/."
"This short paper describes the design and performances of a MIC phase-locked loop X-band avalanche oscillator. The output power (500 mW/CW), the input reference level (1 mW), the locking time (80 ns), and the simplicity of digital phase control makes it very attractive as a primary element of an active phased array."
"In the evaluation of \"fringing capacitances\" one is required to map the specified geometry in the z plane onto the upper half t plane and then to determine the limiting value of the capacitance between the two segments of the real axis---corresponding to the two conductors in the z plane---when one or both of the gaps between them approaches zero. The usual procedure of mapping the upper half t plane onto an infinite parallel plate configuration, which is often more involved than the first mapping, can be eliminated if one recognizes that the capacitance obtained by mapping the upper half t plane onto a rectangle by means of a well-known elliptic function exceeds, in the limit, the correct value by (log 2)//spl pi/, for each gap involved."
"The simultaneous, complex, transcendental equations linking the dielectric constant of a slab partially filling a rectangular waveguide, and the propagation constant of the composite guide have been solved by iteration. Typical results of /spl epsilon/ = f(/spl gamma/) are presented."
"Gillespie and Kilburg have postulated that the fraction of the incident surface-wave power radiated by a conducting strip does not exceed 0.5. This result is shown to be a consequence of the representation of the strip by a shunt impedance."
"Previously published microwave noise temperatures from wall-contained argon discharges at 200 mA dc are compared with the electron temperatures predicted by von Engel and Steenbeck. A good agreement between data and theory results if the ionization efficiency is modified to account for stepwise ionization."
"Experimental results arepresented for the microwave dielectric properties of the glass system (x) As/sub 2/Te/sub 3/(1 - x)As/sub 2/Se/sub 3/ under temperature and compositional variations. The results indicate that the material exhibits potentially useful microwave properties."
   "Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This section of the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques carries descriptions of computer programs which have specific relevance to the microwave art and are available to the microwave community. The purpose of Computer Program Descriptions is to provide a means by which microwave engineers may share useful computer programs with their colleagues. Those wishing to contribute a Computer Program Description should observe the following constraints. The Computer Program Description should normally be no more than one published page (about 4 double-spaced typed pages) in length, including flow charts, illustrations, and references, if any. The program need not be original with the person submitting the Computer Program Description, but if not, permission for publication will be required from the originator."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An equivalent circuit of a waveguide junction between two asymmetrically filled waveguides is obtained. This equivalent circuit is applied to the design of single-section impedance-matching transformers for a dielectric-slab-filled waveguide phase shifter. Calculation and measurement indicated that when a thin alumina slab is employed, a 360/spl deg/ phase shift can be accomplished in a section approximately 1.1 times the unloaded waveguide wavelength at 2.7 GHz, and that the VSWR between 2.7 and 3.0 GHz is kept to less than 1.15."
"Fabry-Perot (FP) resonators working under oblique incidence can be used in the millimeter and far infrared bands as diplexers or channel dropping filters. The response of two-grid Fabry-Perot resonators under Gaussian beam excitation is evaluated by adding the fields of the successive passes of the beam. The results coincide with those obtained from a plane wave expansion of the incident field. Closed form expressions are obtained for the losses due to diffraction walk-off, geometrical walk-off, and mismatch. Excellent agreement is obtained with experiments in the 70-80-GHz band. For a 1-GHz-bandwidth filter, working at an incidence angle of 15 degrees, and an incident beam waist radius of 40 mm, the transmission loss at resonance does not exceed 1 dB. The reflection loss off-resonance is about 0.1 dB. This type of diplexer is particularly useful when used in conjunction with quasioptical guiding systems."
"The behavior of Doppler RADAR with self-detecting diode oscillators is described. Conditions for the frequency deviation to contain only the first harmonic of the Doppler shift frequency are given. The conversion gain and the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio includlng both intrinsic LF and RF noise are calculated. An equivalent LF circuit is obtained. The shape of the I-V characteristic of the oscillating diode is shown to be important for the design of a Doppler module."
"A compact channel-dropping filter geometry is described that is particularly suited for stripline and microwave integrated circuits (MIC). The channel-dropping filter is comprised of a hairpin bandpass filter and a new bandstop filter, referred to herein as a folded-line bandstop filter. Design parameters for the latter filter for a range of bandwidths are tabulated. Analytical and experimental data for a trial channel-dropping filter are presented and discussed."
"It is shown that a certain asymptotic expansion of the Mathieu function of the fourth kind has almost certainly been inappropriately applied to previous elliptic waveguide calculations. An appropriate expansion is discussed at some length, and leads to a substantial modification of the published formulas. The need for a correction is demanded by a physical requirement to give the limit of the conventional surface impedance expression at the broad face of a very elongated elliptical shape. A curvature effect, the subject of some recent technical discussions, survives the change, and a discussion is given of an unsuccessful attempt to create a generalized form that replaces the ellipse parameters by differentials of the local curvature of the surface. An attempt is also made to justify the reality of such a substantial curvature effect. However, no effect occurs for flat surfaces or those of uniform curvature, confirming the validity of the usual perturbation technique of calculating waveguide attenuation in those cases. An anomalous property of the characteristic numbers of the Mathieu functions is discussed insofar as it relates to the present problem."
"The design and performance of an X-band amplifier with GaAs Schottky-gate field-effect transistors are described. The amplifier achieves 20 /spl plusmn/ 1.3-dB gain with a 5.5-dB typical noise figure (6.9 dB maximum) over the frequency range of 8.0-12.0 GHz. The VSWR at the input and output ports does not exceed 2.5:1. The minimum output power for 1-dB gain compression is +13 dBm, and the intercept point for third-order intermodulation products is +26 dBm. The design of practical wide-band coupling networks is discussed. These networks minimize the overall amplifier noise figure and maintain a constant gain in the band."
"AM, FM, and baseband noise of a BARITT diode oscillator in the range 100 Hz-50 kHz off the carrier has been measured under various operating conditions. A simple calculation has been made, relating the baseband noise to the oscillator AM and FM noise via measured amplitude and frequency modulation sensitivities and the results have been compared with the noise measured. It is shown that, depending on the bias current applied, both AM and FM noise performance can be degraded by up-conversion. Complete removal of up-converted noise requires a high-impedance low-noise bias supply since both the diode noise and bias supply noise at baseband frequencies may be significant when up-converted. Even with all modulation suppressed, the AM and FM noise has a flicker component almost completely correlated with the diode flicker noise at baseband frequencies. The RF power dependence of the AM and FM noise has also been investigated. It is shown that the BARITT oscillator noise compares very favorably with that of IMPATT's and TEO's. Values of -142 dB/100 Hz (AM noise) and 3.5 Hz/(100 Hz)/sup 1/2/ for Q/sub ext/ = 200 (FM noise) have been measured at 30 kHz off the carrier."
"Hairpin-line and hybrid hairpin-line/half-wave parallel-coupled-line filters are preferred filters for microstrip and TEM printed-circuit realizations. This class of filters offers small size and, in general, needs no ground connections for resonators. A new design theory is presented that is based on a sparse capacitance matrix for the array of coupled lines that constitute the filter, as opposed to a sparse-inductance-matrix assumption in previous theories that is much harder to satisfy. It is shown that to a good approximation, hairpin-line filters result from frequency-scaling half-wave parallel-coupled-line filters. Because of this; the bandwidth can be accurately predicted. Design procedures are given for Type-A filters, which are useful up to 20-percent bandwidth. A variety of hybrid hairpin-line/half-wave parallel-coupled-line filters is possible, and their design is explained. Numerical results for a number of designs and experimental results for a 5-percent bandwidth filter are included."
"A method for imaging remote moving objects with a giant thinned holographic array by monitoring the range and range-rate (Doppler) histories of a coherently illuminated object at the various elements of the array is discussed. Electrooptic processing and image retrieval from the raw data collected are described together with a technique that compensates for image distortion arising from irrotational object maneuvers. Results of confirming experiments are also given together with remarks on practical implementation."
"A theoretical determination is made for the susceptance of a narrow conducting strip inserted vertically into a waveguide. The theory is based upon a variational form for the susceptance. A suitable current distribution along the strip is obtained for the variational equation, and is found to be similar to that determined from analysis of backscattering by a cylindrical obstacle irradiated from an incident plane wave. Accurate theoretical results may be obtained using a sinusoidal current distribution having a phase constant of /spl pi//2d, where d is the strip depth. Experimental results agree closely with the theory in the dominant-mode range and also at frequencies below cutoff."
"A multipoint technique for complex permittivity measurements is described. This method is based on experimental determination and fitting of the field pattern existing in the sample placed inside a short-circuited slotted waveguide and verified with experimental results."
"It is proposed to construct a simple \"crossoverless\" Iumped-element circulator, which can be made without sophisticated thin-film processing. The circulator can be described by a \"delta connected\" equivalent circuit. A simple capacitor arrangement can be used to influence the three eigenvalue phases of the circulator independently, thus permitting this circulator to be maximized systematically. A set of computer-generated eigenvalues gives insight into the behavior of the device under varying operating conditions. Preliminary measurements using a very simple pattern on a 0.650-in-diam ferrite substrate show a 20-dB bandwidth of 10 percent and an insertion loss < 1 dB (0.3 dB/min) at L band."
"Coax-slot and microstrip-slot transitions are discussed. Experimental VSWR and impedance data are presented and compared with values computed using equivalent circuits for these transitions. Thick-film chip terminations are also investigated."
"An analytic model for electronic tuning of an X-band waveguide transferred-electron oscillator is presented. The oscillator is electronically tunable by a varactor, and mechanically tunable by movement of a short circuit. The model is used to predict oscillation frequency, maximum electronic tuning range, and electronic tuning versus varactor bias voltage. Two different methods, the \"zero reactance theory\" and the Slater perturbation theory, are used to calculate the electronic tuning. The results of these calculations are compared to experimental results for two different oscillator configurations."
"A numerical method is given for the determination of the impedance of an infinitely long thin-wire helix. The propagation constant of the current for zero tangential electric field is found and used in a variational expression for impedance. Asymptotic values of resistance versus pitch are compared with resistances of infinitely long straight-wire antennas."
"The match checker is a self-contained passive device, which, when inserted between ports of a waveguide or coaxial-line system, provides an indication of the mismatch at each port. It does not require tuning, and internal reflections from components of the match checker do not limit the accuracy of the match which may be obtained. It is therefore suitable for use in matching ports with the high precision needed for calibration systems."
"Design equations for a loaded-line phase shifter are derived for any susceptance spacing. An analysis based on these relations shows that maximum bandwidth is obtained when the spacing between the switched susceptances is 90 degrees."
"The electric field in a waveguide partially filled with a low-loss slab of dielectric in the H plane presents a Circularly polarized component at the air-dielectric interface over a limited frequency range. This effect could be used to improve the performance of nonreciprocal devices utilizing the gyroelectric effect in magnetized semiconductors."
"The experiments of a Michelson interferometer-type filter with a superbroad frequency range 40-120 GHz are described. The branching loss is 1.2-2.2 dB within this frequency range. The filter can be used for a 40-120-GHz millimeter-wave waveguide transmission system."
"The increase of the surface resistance of plane copper surfaces caused by mechanically generated surface roughness has been determined at 35 GHz by measuring and evaluating the Q values of an H-guide cavity with removable sidewalls. The sidewalls were ground one-directionally by using abrasive papers of various grades to produce various degrees of roughness. The rms values of roughess were measured mechanically and optically after calibration by microphotography."
"IMPATT diode amplifiers are described that use several packaged diodes in parallel in a coaxial housing. With a pair of GaAs Schottky-barrier diodes, a power output of 8 W (input locking power equals 300 mW) was obtained at 4 GHz without exceeding safe operating temperatures. Similarly, three-diode circuits produced 15 W (locking power equals 3.5 W) at 4 GHz and >10 W (locking power equals 2.7 W) at 6 GHz under safe operating conditions. The maximum power obtained from the pair was 11 W. The maximum power obtained from the 4 GHz three-diode circuit was 21 W. The efficiency of the diodes at the maximum power level was 12-13 percent. The characteristics of the pair are compared with those of the individual diodes and it is concluded that this power-combining scheme is very efficient and should be economically advantageous. The scheme permits the total diode area utilized in a single cavity to be increased significantly beyond that which is practical in a single diode package. The use of parallel operation permits efficient heat sinking of each diode package, which is impractical with series operation. The technique employed has been shown to be suitable for extension to three or more diodes for higher power. It is required that each set of diodes be matched for similar I-V characteristics. With this constraint, the close RF coupling of the diodes in conjunction with appropriate stabilizing resistor(s) assures that the diodes operate cooperatively as a unit capable of being powered from a single current-regulated source."
"A new nondestructive method has been developed for measuring the dielectric constant and the loss factor of a slab-type material using a microstrip cavity. The method, which uses a simple and rapid substitution procedure, yields accurate results and has a number of advantages over currently available techniques. Experimental details and the theoretical basis are explained and experimental data are presented."
"An investigation is described on circular bends in beam waveguides constituted by dielectric frames. A uniform bending of the guide axis is obtained by tilting each frame by a small angle; however, due to the phase correction performed by the dielectric frame, the losses introduced by the bending can be made lower than those of an analogously bent iris waveguide. A numerical analysis is performed on the basis of the analogy between beam waveguides and open resonators which permits the assessment, in a number of cases, of the maximum permissible amount of tilting and the corresponding optimum frame dimensions in view of acceptable losses. The losses due to mode conversion are also evaluated when considering the connection between a straight and a curved section of the waveguide."
"A general analysis of varactor-tuned negative-resistance oscillators is presented to show the varactor loading effect on the oscillator Q. The external Q of the varactor loaded circuit normalized with respect to the unperturbed external Q is plotted as a function of the tuning range for several values of the varactor Q and the capacitance ratio."
"Utilizing all sections of binary power dividers in a single transformer yields a reduced circuit length for a specified electrical performance."
"The first 20-K-cooled degenerate parametric amplifier for 46 GHz is described. New 20-K-cooled circulators and Schottky-barrier varactors are used. Its noise temperature of less than 60 K means almost an order-of-magnitude improvement over previous uncooled amplifiers."
"Attention is called to published work describing an impedance-measuring circuit that is frequently reinvented."
"A discussion of the production of sound when short microwave pulses are directed at an absorber is presented. Possible mechanisms of the phenomenon are presented. These mechanisms may be important for a better understanding of the so-called microwave \"hearing\" effect."
"To obtain the equivalent circuit parameters for a junction between empty and side-slab-filled rectangular waveguides."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "In order to select a phase shifter for a given application, it is necessary to weigh a number of performance factors such that the device selected will result in the lowest overall system cost. This may be accomplished by defining an effective phase-shifter cost in terms of the initial cost of the phase shifter and driver, and dollar factors resulting from insertion loss, phase error, and quantization level."
"The design principles for dual-mode reciprocal latching ferrite phase shifters are relatively well understood at present. Discussions of a few selected topics not previously studied are presented in this paper. A tradeoff analysis is carried out for X-band units to show the interrelation between phase-shifter weight and insertion loss. An interesting consequence of this analysis is the theoretical prediction of an optimum range of values for the saturation moment of the ferrite material. Switching energy in the presence of shorted-turn damping is also analyzed and related to the geometry and hysteresis loss of the ferrite material. Finally, a discussion of manufacturing considerations and unit cost at high rates of production is carried out. The major conclusion is that unit cost levels approaching $10.00 are possible for a production run sufficiently large to justify the substantial cost of engineering and tooling for high rates of manufacture."
"A theoretical analysis of the microwave propagation in a circular TE/sub 11/ waveguide partially or completely loaded with an axially magnetized ferrite rod is presented. This study is based upon an exact analytical treatment of the Maxwell's equations, together with an original numerical method of solving transcendental equations with a complex variable. The introduction of the complex propagation constant /spl Gamma/ = /spl alpha/ + j/spl beta/, taking in account the losses in the filling medium, had never been attempted because of the mathematical difficulties involved making essential the use of a large capacity computer. The developed program not only supplies all the propagation characteristics for a given structure but also enables us to optimize a phase-shift section in accordance with the user's requirements. This study is a first step towards the theoretical optimization of two types of reciprocal phasers: the dual mode phaser (DMP) and the polarization insensitive phaser (PIP), both widely used in array antenna systems. The computed results obtained for the basic section of such phasers operating at a central frequency of 9.5 GHz are given. Obviously, this work is still incomplete since it does not include the optimization of all the components of a practical phase shifter, for example, the polarizers. Moreover, we have assumed the ferrite partially magnetized by a continuously variable bias field, although the PIP and the DMP are normally operated in a latching configuration; we presently complete our study according to these practical considerations."
"Low-cost construction techniques for S-band twin-slab ferrite phase shifters are presented along with an experimental comparison of garnet and lithium-ferrite materials. A 3-bit phase shifter with lithium-ferrite material, which is approximately half the price of garnet material, had a measured loss of 0.4 dB and a peak power handling of 4.5 kW."
"Three microwave garnet phase-shifter designs are used in the AEGIS weapons system. The microwave design is straight-forward except that the toroid assembly is potted with silicone rubber to increase its power-handling capability and the magnetizing wires are shielded with a spiral-wrapped wire to prevent the propagation of higher order modes. The driver circuit uses a new \"flux-feedback\" concept for improved accuracy and employs monolithic circuits, hybrid circuits, and discrete components. Mechanical and electrical design of the interfaces with mating components are important cost considerations and the chosen designs are described in detail. Several techniques for improving production yield are discussed and a table of production statistics is provided. Performance histograms and data averages as a function of time and operating frequency are also presented."
"A 100-kW-peak Z-kW-average-power liquid-cooled ferrite digital phase shifter has been constructed using beryllia cooling of the ferrite toroid to meet single axis scanned array requirements. The phase-shift cross section external to the ferrite toroids is completely filled with the beryllia. Experiments indicate that the maximum temperature rise in the ferrite is no greater than 45/spl deg/ C. In tests using flux drive to 2 kW, the phase shifter exhibits a maximum phase drift of /spl plusmn/ 6/spl deg/ for 90/spl deg/ differential phase shift. The differential phase shift versus frequency varies less than /spl plusmn/ 0.5/spl deg/ for a 3-percent bandwidth."
"Nonreciprocal transmission lines periodically loaded with thin metallic diaphragms are analyzed using the wave transmission matrix approach. An approximate equivalent circuit representation of the diaphragm is proposed and discussed. Using this representation, the differential phase-shift and impedance characteristics of the periodically loaded line are computed for assumed parameters, for \"shunt-capacitance\" and \"shunt-inductance\" loading. The range of validity of the approximate results is examined using a certain criterion. The differential phase shift for both capacitive and inductive loading is found to be greater than that of the unloaded line and the results show the same general trends as those previously observed experimentally."
"In order to assist the microwave engineer in predicting the performance of partially magnetized devices, we have characterized the microwave permeability of partially magnetized materials. The real part of the tensor permeability elements, /spl mu/, /spl kappa/, and /spl mu//sub z/, depends primarily on the parameters /spl gamma/4/spl pi/M//spl omega/ and /spl gamma/4/spl pi/M/sub s/ / /spl omega/. Empirical formulas have been developed which show the dependence. At frequencies sufficiently below /spl omega/ = /spl pi/4/spl pi/M/sub s/, the loss can be characterized by the value of /spl mu/'' at 4/spl pi/M = 0./spl mu/, /spl kappa/, and /spl mu//sub z/ depend weakly on composition, whereas /spl mu/'' (4/spl pi/M = 0) does depend upon the chemical composition."
"The low power loss and high power threshold properties have been measured on a number of candidate ferrite phase-shifting materials. The low power loss is characterized by /spl mu//sub 0/'', the imaginary part of the diagonal component of the permeability tensor for the completely demagnetized state. /spl mu/sub 0/'' was measured from 3.0 to 16.8 GHz. The high power properties are characterized by the parallel pump threshold at a bias field correspontig to H/sub i/ /spl equiv/ 0 and to 4/spl pi/M /spl equiv/ 4/spl pi/M/sub s/. The threshold was measured between 3.0 and 16.8 GHz. For the purposes of computer calculation /spl mu//sub 0/'' and h/sub crit/ were fit to an equation of the form A (/spl gamma/4/spl pi/M/sub s/ / /spl omega/)/sup N/. Translating /spl mu//sub 0/'' and h/sub crit/ to /spl Delta/H/sub eff/ and /spl Delta/H/sub k/ gives the YIG plus Al as the lowest loss and lowest threshold materials followed by the Gd garnets and MgMn spinels. The Ni spinels are very Iossy."
"Lithium ferrites are discussed and compared with other spinel microwave ferrites and rare earth-iron garnets. Points of comparison are saturation magnetization, temperature performance, hysteresis loop properties, stress sensitivity, insertion loss, power handling capability, resonance linewidth, and cost. The main points of discussion deal with the relative effectiveness of lithium ferrites, nickel ferrites, magnesium ferrites, and garnets as elements employed in latching applications at frequencies in the S, C, X, and K/sub u/ bands. A section is devoted to the compositional modifications necessary for: 1) adjusting magnetization, spin-wave line width, coercive force, and magnetic anisotropy; 2) the minimization of stress sensitivity and dielectric loss; and 3) the improvement of microstructural characteristics."
"This paper contains considerations for diode phase shifters used for phased array antenna control. The categories are: 1) areas in which ferrite and diode phase shifters differ, 2) diode phase-shifter circuits, 3) the nature and typical performance of p-i-n diodes, 4) the requirements of a driver and a typical circuit, and 5) measured performance of phase shifters in L, S, C, and X bands."
"The design and performance of two microstrip semiconductor phase shifters operating at S band and UHF are described. The S-band diode phase shifter uses thick-film metallization on a 99.5-percent alumina substrate and uses series coupled diodes for the small bits and constant phase frequency switched life bits for the three large bits. The 4-bit UHF phase shifter uses eight p-i-n diodes mounted in a low dielectric constant microstrip circuit and operates at a power level of 8 kW peak, 240 W average, and has an average insertion loss of 0.7 dB. Phase and VSWR distributions on 800 units produced are also given. The characteristics of two new microwave semiconductor switching devices, the field-effect diode (FED) and the resistive gate switch are described. These devices operate with only a voltage change. Design and performance of an SP2T switch and 3-bit phase shifter using the field-effect diode are presented."
"This paper presents a description of a p-i-n diode phase shifter that was designed for low cost production for use in X-band phased-array systems. The phase shifter is designed to make maximum use of photoetched circuit components and low cost materials, and is well suited for assembly on a fully automated assembly line. The salient features of this phase shifter are a printed-circuit transmission structure and inexpensive RF connectors that are integrated into the circuit package. The microwave performance characteristics are generally superior to those of equivalent devices; a useful bandwidth of 40 percent with an average insertion loss of 1.6 dB has been demonstrated with 3-bit units."
"A 4-bit p-i-n diode switched-line phase shifter was fabricated for use in the 2.0- to 4.0-GHZ frequency range. Extremely good phase characteristics were easily obtained over two octaves by employing a resistive loading technique to eliminate resonance problems. A single bit was modeled and analyzed on a computer from 1.5 to 6.0 GHz. Test results of a microstrip realization of this bit, which correlates well with the computer model, are presented. A unique compatible driver used with the phase shifter, and the microstrip fabrication process used in constructing the phase shifter are also presented."
"A new principle for phase shifting, and hence beam steering, on an active array antenna is described. Each individual RF source is phase locked by a stable locking signal which is close in frequency to the nth harmonic of its free-running frequency. Pulses of appropriate amplitude and duration applied to the dc circuitry cause the fundamental output frequency of the RF source to shift in phase by increments of 2/spl pi//n. The construction and testing of a four-element L-band (1-GHz) array using transistor oscillators locked at S-band (4 GHz) to give 90/spl deg/ phase increments is described."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method is described that permits a broad-band small-signal characterization of an IMPATT diode mounted in a package. From automatic-network-analyzer measurements on a package-shaped metal dummy, an empty package, and the diode under test biased below and above breakdown, the method allows first determination of a coupling-circuit parameter, bonding-wire inductance, and diode series resistance, and then evaluation of junction admittance above breakdown. Experimental results on silicon (Si) p+-n-n+ diodes over 2.5-15 GHz are shown. Nearly frequency-independent bonding-wire inductance is observed. Avalanche frequency squared (f/sub a//sup 2/) is found to be sublinear with respect to dc current density (I/sub d), possibly due to a variation of junction temperature (T/sub i/). An experimental formIda for (f/sub a//sup 2/) / (I/sub d) is obtained in terms of (T/sub i/).Detailed comparisons of the measured junction admittance with an existing analytical theory indicate a good agreement, if a suitable amount of saturation current is postulated, and also suggest that the estimated amount is in excess of the prebreakdown saturation current."
"The form taken by the radiation condition in the local coordinate system, pertinent to the determination by perturbation methods of the radiation from curved radiating structures, is not the same as it is at very great distances. Specifically, it may contain a term that appears as if it were an incoming or growing wave. A detailed analysis is made of the appropriate form of the condition in cylindrical and toroidal systems, and is applied to the calculation of radiation from curyed dielectric slabs and fibers."
"A quasi-optical bandpass filter suitable for millimeter and submilliieter wavelengths and in the far infrared region is described. It consists of three or more wire-grid polarizers with quarter-wave spacings. The filter has the advantage over conventional quasi-optical filters, e.g., Fabry-Perot filters, that its bandwidth and the shape of its frequency response are adjustable. This is achieved by changing the angular orientations of the wires of the different polarizers. The filter requires the input electric field to be linearly polarized in a direction perpendicular to the wires of the first grid. The theory of operation is presented and design formulas for the filter are given, under the assumption that ideal wire-grid polarizers are employed. The effects of using realistic grids on the performance of the filter are dealt within another paper."
"This paper investigates the effects of using realistic grids on the performance of the adjustable quasi-optical bandpass filter presented in Part I. The theory given here is in excellent agreement with measurements performed on a three-grid filter in the 50-75-GHz band."
"Modifications to a normal microstrip transmission line are proposed, with the aim of reducing the attenuation constant of the line. The results of a computer analysis of a structure containing multilayers of dielectric show that significant reductions in attenuation appear possible."
"Wave propagation between two open parallel concave reflectors is usually considered by a wave-beam or a multiple-reflection approach. It is shown that the field distribution in elliptic waveguides, for specific wave modes, approaches that in open reflector waveguides."
"A semi-infinite ferrite magnetized perpendicular to the interface is found to support a nonmagnetostatic surface wave. The wave exists within a finite wavelength band and a finite frequency band. Since the wavelength is typically of the order of 1 cm, large samples of polycrystalline ferrite material may be used for the experiments."
"This short paper describes the experiments conducted to determine the burnout capability of various types of Ku-band mixer diodes when subjected to narrow RF spikes. This condition results frequently in pulsed microwave systems where the receiver is not adequately protected or where the system's limiting devices degrade or fail. The maintenance problems resulting from mixer failures are severe and may become more so with increased usage of Schottky barrier diodes."
"The effect of ohmic and dielectric losses, conductor thickness, and frequency dispersion on the performance of edge-coupled microstrip directional couplers and interdigital filters have been determined in this short paper. The odd- and even-mode attenuation constants due to ohmic losses in the conductor have been calculated using Wheeler's inductance formula. The theoretical results for the characteristic impedance and propagation constants are in good agreement with the experimental results of Napoli and Hughes. Among the parameters that can be calculated from this theory are the isolation, directivity, and coupling coefficients of lossy directional couplers and the midband insertion loss of interdigital filters."
"An investigation is reported on modes and losses of a square ring resonator that consists of the numerical solution of the appropriate integral equation for a number of values of the mirrors' aperture and spacing. It turns out that two sets of modes can exist: circulating modes and modes between two facing mirrors. The circulating modes are of the Fabry-Perot type, and their losses can be evaluated on the basis of the losses of suitably equivalent Fabry-Perot resonators."
"Extensive microwave loss measurements have been performed at the frequency of 1.3 GHz on below resonance stripline Y circulators loaded with aluminum doped YIG. Extemal x'' have been measured on the same compositions. Also, dielectric loss measurements have been carried out. A relation is found which correlates insertion loss in stripline circulators with loss parameters x'' and tan /spl delta/."
"The successful fabrication of low-loss two-dimensional GaAs epitaxial waveguides by chemical etching for use in integrated optics at 10.6 /spl mu/m is reported. Selective excitation of specific E/sub pq//sup y/ modes was observed by placing the prism at specific angles in the horizontal plane. Loss measurements showed no increase in attenuationfor lower order E/sub pq//sup y/ modes (as compared to corresponding one-dimensional waveguide modes) when the guide width is 50 /spl mu/m. As the guide width is reduced, there is a significant increase in attenuation as p increases."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The dispersion relationship describing the propagation of electromagnetic (EM) surface modes supported by a ferrite slab of finite thickness magnetized parallel to the planes of its air-ferrite-air or air-ferrite-metal interfaces is investigated. Surface wave propagation at frequencies greater than the ferrite-metal mode resonance is predicted for thick grounded ferrite slabs thereby clarifying prior results based upon semi-infinite and magnetostatic analyses. The relative energy densities of the electromagnetic surface modes is examined at the air-ferrite interfaces of an ungrounded slab."
"A new interdigital electrode transducer geometry has been conceived and its theoretical performance verified experimentally. The transducer is composed of sets of electrodes which are connected in series through an offset or \"dog-leg\" electrode, thereby significantly increasing the electrical impedance of the transducer over that of a conventional one having the same aperture. This transducer radiates and receives a uniform straight-crested wavefront. The transducer is shown to have unique impedance properties suited for wide-aperture surface-wave devices or those requiring some form of wave-amplitude weighting. Experiments have been conducted on YZ LiNbO/sub 3/ which verify that the terminal impedance of the transducer is proportional to the square of the number of equal-aperture constant-amplitude sections."
"A lumped equivalent circuit is used to characterize a two-post waveguide mounting structure frequently utilized in varactor-tuned Gunn oscillators. Analytical expressions for the different elements are derived. Comparison with experimental results enabled us to refine the model by the introduction of correction factors which compensate for the simplifying assumptions of the theoretical model. This equivalent circuit would facilitate the optimization of the performance of this type of oscillator."
"A novel planar waveguide which is suitable for guiding electromagnetic (EM) energy in the millimeter-wave and submillimeter- wave regions is studied. By using Wiener-Hopf techniques, we first determine the reflection coefficient at the open ends of the guide. Next, a transverse resonance condition is applied to determine the dispersion relation of the modal field. The propagation constant is found to be complex. Its imaginary part accounts for the edge diffraction loss of the strip through the open ends of the guide. Extensive numerical results are given for the disperson characteristics and modal field distributions for silicon and fuzed quartz substrates. The planar strip waveguide should have the advantages of simplicity in processing, a lower random diffraction loss, and accessibility to monolithic integration techniques."
"The small-signal characteristics at the second subharmonic (half-frequency) of a periodically pumped IMPATT diode are presented. Theoretical analysis using an appropriate model indicates these characteristics can be interpreted as a \"phase-sensitive admittance\" which clarifies subharmonic oscillation conditions and suggests a method for their measurement. Measured data on silicon and GaAs diodes de-embedded to the active wafer are in good agreement with theoretical predictions based on the equivalent nonlinear model for each device. Circuit conditions that eliminate second subharmonic and thus prevent fundamental power robbing are given which can be readily obtained for existing devices. An example demonstrating the efficiency-limiting properties of subharmonic is given."
"Carpenter and Livstone's experiments on beetle pupae are repeated and extended. In the experiments conducted, increased incidence of abnormal development occurred due to exposure to microwave energy, both CW and pulsed. This effect was observed at the power level of 8.6 mW/cm/sup 2/. Measurements are reported which specify the microwave environment encountered by the insect."
"Comparison between the low-frequency noise spectra measurements in microwave diodes under RF and dc excitations are reported. The frequency-dependent noise temperature ratio t measured over a range of low frequencies was approximately 3 dB less with RF excitation than with dc excitation, when the dc bias level was identical in the two cases."
"It has been observed that in many cases the power generated by waveguide-tunable Gunn oscillators varies irregularly and rapidly with the tuning. These power variations, which are not to be confused with those deriving from mode switching, markedly depend on the components connected to the oscillator, and are present in spite of their good matching in the operating band. Theoretical evaluations and an experimental test have been performed which allows one to ascribe this phenomenon to the interaction between the fundamental and harmonic signals due to the diode nonlinearity. The understanding of this phenomenon allows one to design the oscillator in such a way as to reduce its effects."
"A broad-band computer-aided impedance-matching technique using a comparison reflectometer has been established. The technique is capable of resolving points in a waveguide which generate reflected energy. The comparison reflectometer determines the mean amplitude of the reflection coefficient as a function of distance along the guide and the complex-reflection coefficient of a specific discontinuity in the guide as a function of frequency. A computer program has been developed which is capable of impedance matching the characteristics of each disturbance independent of other reflections in the guide. A shunt slot radiator was fabricated and its complex-reflection coefficient measured with a comparison reflectometer. Application of the computer-sided matching technique resulted in a VSWR of less than 1.16 to 1.0 for the slot radiator over the frequency band from 8.5 to 10.5 GHz."
"A theoretical study, backed by experimental verification, was undertaken to determine the modal characteristics of quadruple-ridged circular and square waveguides. Field lines for the first few important modes and cutoff frequencies were determined. It is shown that for square waveguides quadruple-ridge loading always decreases the TE/sub 10/-TE/sub 11/ bandwidth whereas for circular waveguides only a small amount of additional separation between the first two fundamental modes may be obtained over a limited parameter range. Symmetrical excitation will not excite the asymmetrical higher-order modes. This feature makes these waveguides acceptable as feeds for wide-band reflector antennas and for similar applications but raises a question mark regarding their use as radiators in wide-band phases arrays."
"The results of experiments using TRAPATT diodes connected in series at 0.5, 2, and 8 GHz are described. These experiments demonstrate that successful series operation of TRAPATT's at frequencies up to at least 2 GHz can be achieved in a configuration suitable for long pulsewidth or CW operation. An 8-GHz operation of series stacked TRAPATT'S yielded high power outputs at the same efficiency achieved with single devices but no well heat sunk configuration was found that yielded good efficiency."
"A convenient laboratory technique is described to measure the internal circuit loss, the load conductance, and equivalent circuit susceptances of microwave diode oscillators and amplifiers using an IMPATT diode biased just below its breakdown voltage."
"Experimental determination of an equivalent circuit for very large impedance steps in microstrip is described. The equivalent circuit is shown to be valid in the frequency range from 1 to 2 GHz on 0.0635-cm-thick alumina substrate, although the experimental method used is applicable to any frequency range and any geometry."
"This short paper presents a design procedure for the widely used three-port waveguide circulator that has a partial height ferrite post in the junction region. Design formulas and curves are derived for two configurations of partial height circulators: one has a short circuit at one end of the ferrite post, while the other has dielectric spacers at both ends. The design method was used to build two circulators for operation at 38 GHz and 60 GHz, respectively. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment was obtained in predicting the center frequency and required matching structure of these devices."
"By a modification of the Kurtz and Streifer procedure, the coupled second-order differential equations for the field components of guided modes along a graded index dielectric rod surrounded by a homogeneous medium were solved directly. Using the results, the eigenvalue equations which are consistent with those of the simple core-cladding-type dielectric fiber in the region near the cutoffs were obtained."
"A stable microwave integrated circuit (MIC) X-band Gunn oscillator is described. Frequency stability is achieved by use of a modified Pound stabilizing system. An average short-term frequency stability of 2 x 10/sup -7/ at room temperature and a thermal stability of 9 x 10/sup -7/ / /spl deg/C between -15 and 30/spl deg/C have been obtained."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
   "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The general formulas for both 4-port magnetic-resonator circulators and 2-port magnetic-resonator bandpass filters (BPF's) are given. The effects of the circuit structure and the physical properties of the resonator on the characteristics of the circuit are investigated. The maximum dissipation loss of the resonator is just one half of the input power. Contrary to the results shown in previous reports, it is understood that for a given resonator, there exists an optimum value of the external Q of the circuit and also that a polycrystalline magnetic resonator may be useful for the nonreciprocal circuit, if the product of unloaded Q and saturation magnetization has a sufficiently large value. The requirements for the insertion loss (IL), the reverse loss (RL), and the reflection at the center frequency are introduced, and then the necessary conditions of resonator loss and the limitations of 3-dB bandwidth and available range are clarified."
"This paper describes a single-step attenuator for values below 0.1 dB of very high long-term stability. This uses a directional coupler with a fixed short circuit at one coupled port and a switchable match-or-short at the other. The value of the attenuation step in the transmitting path is governed by the coupling and thus very small steps may be achieved readily. The attenuator is analyzed in full and relationships for a leaky directional coupler are given, together with a flowgraph model of a nonideal coupler."
"The existence range of the S parameters of a passive two-port is analyzed and various limitations on their moduli are deduced. In particular, it is shown that when three moduli are given, the last, in general, may be upper and lower bounded by passivity conditions."
"It is shown that the study of arbitrarily terminated multiconductor transmission lines which may in general be lossy and subjected to excitation applied at an arbitrary point along the lines, may be effectively performed with the aid of the appropriate Green's matrix. The procedure is illustrated using the Chipman method of impedance measurement as well as coupled microstrip lines."
"In 1972 Konishi proposed a unique waveguide filter of sandwich-like construction that was attractive because of its simplicity. This short paper presents an analysis of the sandwich filter that has a conductive sheet with finite thickness sandwiched between waveguide shells. An equivalent circuit is derived, design charts are proposed, and Young's technique is applied to the design of an M-band waveguide filter. The experimental results were found to be in good agreement with the theory and analysis techniques developed herein."
"Losses in microstrip on fused-silica and alumina substrates have been experimentally evaluated for various values of stripwidth. Radiation losses in circuits, commonly used for measuring losses in microstrips, depend on the dimensions of the circuit and affect the total losses considerably. Radiation and conduction losses of open-ended line resonators have been separately determined. These measurements have also drawn attention to discrepancies between published theories and our experiments. The effect of surface roughness upon conduction losses has been measured."
"The modal equations for both the monofilar and bifilar modes of a two open wire transmission line located in a waveguide model of a rectangular mine tunnel are derived by extending an earlier general analysis. Attenuation curves of both modes in the frequency range 200 kHz-200 MHz are presented for two distinct configurations of the transmission line that may be used in practice. It is demonstrated that the proximity of the Iossy tunnel wall tends to increase greatly the attenuation rate for the monofilar modes but has relatively little effect on the bifilar modes."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Octave bandwidth operation of Y-junction stripline and microstrip circulators is predicted using Bosma's Green's function analysis. The width of the coupling transmission lines is found to be a significant design parameter. Theoretical and experimental results are presented which show that wide lines and a smaller than usual disk radius can be used to obtain wide-band operation. A microstrip circulator is reported which operates from 7-15 GHz. Also presented are an analysis of the input impedance and an approximate equivalent circuit for the Y-junction circulator which shows the relationship between Bosma's equivalent circuit and that of Fay and Comstock."
"A simple method is described to calculate the capacitances of rectangular and circular microstrip disk capacitors. From the edge capacitances of the capacitors the influence of the fringing field on the resonance frequencies of microstrip disk resonators is calculated. A theory to compute the resonance frequencies of microstrip resonators with high accuracy is presented. The resonance frequencies are calculated from a resonator model employing an effective width and length or radius, respectively, filled with a medium of a \"dynamic dielectric constant.\" Theoretical and experimental results are compared and found to be in agreement within 1 percent."
"The hybrid branchline coupler consists of two transmission lines connected alternately by /spl lambda//4 shunt and series branches. The analysis of this structure leads to a class of directional couplers of which the parallel transmission-line and the de Ronde strip-slot types may be regarded as special cases. From the precise design data thus available, a number of 3-dB strip-slot couplers have been built in C band and X band with a performance close to the predicted one."
"The equivalent circuit of an inductive strip inserted in the middle of a waveguide parallel to the E plane is analyzed theoretically by evaluating the inductive reactance of the equivalent T network which was obtained by the Rayleigh-Ritz variational technique. A design theory for the bandpass filter of this type is derived from this equivalent circuit. The confirmation between the design theory and the experimental resuIts is also shown."
"A mode conversion test set utilizing the klinger cavity technique has been developed for characterizing circular waveguide components in the millimeter waveguide region. The test set incorporates a precision linear displacement optical encoder and a specially designed controller which interfaces the test set to a Hewlett-Packard 2100 series computer. Control commands of a stored computer program are used by the operator for data acquisition and analysis. Experimental results show this system has high measurement accuracy and sensitivity while maintaining an uncomplicated measurement process."
"Room-temperature measurernetits were taken at 87 GHz on isolators fabricated by using thin vacuum-deposited hot-wire-recrystallized InSb films in both the Faraday-rotation mode and the field-displacement mode. In the Faraday-rotation mode, an insertion loss of 9 dB, a nonreciprocity of 10 dB, and an isolation of 19 dB were obtained in an external magnetic field of 8 kOe."
"A method of estimating quasi-static discontinuity inductances in microstrip lines is outlined. Numerical results for symmetric right-angle bends are presented and compare well with experimental results."
"The recording of the electroencephalogram (EEG) in an amplitude-modulated microwave field presents two related but distinct problems when conventional electrodes are employed. The electrode and its associated conductors extract power from the incident radiation, resulting in increased local power deposition which confounds dosimetric arguments and imposes local thermalization; the electrode tissue interface is a nonlinear system that demodulates amplitude-modulated signals with the results that the demodulate is additively mixed with the EEG. The problems were studied in a series of bench tests with conventional and thin-film microwave integrated circuit (MIC) electrodes. The latter are decoupled from the magnetic component of the field by virtue of radically reduced dimensions of the thin-loop component of its geometry, and suppression of dipole (i.e., electric field interaction) currents by use of integrated Nichrome series resistance. The result is that the demodulation artifact is undetectable in the ensemble averaged-power spectrum from the in vitro electrode up to an S-band incident-power density of 100 mW/cm/sup 2/. Thermalization was studied in a dielectric brain phantom with high-resistance monofilament leads to the MIC with a result that 0.6/spl deg/C heating is attributable to the electrode with prolonged exposure to a 50-mW/cm/sup 2/ field."
"For some special applications impedance measurements have to be made where the test level reaching the unknown must be kept very low. In such cases, using slotted-line techniques, the detector and generator are reversed in the test setup, and the test signal is introduced across the probe of the slotted line which is terminated on one side with the load, and on the other with the detector. This short paper briefly describes this familiar method and then discusses the error calculation in the measurement of VSWR and phase when the detector is not perfectly matched."
"A method used to treat covered microstrip is extended to multilayer microstrip. Detailed results are obtained for the general three-layer problem. Series expansion and term-by-term integration are used to obtain a closed form expression for the Green's function. Matrix methods are then used to obtain the characteristic impedance. Data obtained agree closely with experiment."
"A waveguide filter which separates the 4-GHz band the combined 4-, 6-, and 11-GHz common-carrier bands with a loss of only 0.05 dB is described. The input is limited to a single polarization, but dual polarizations can be accommodated by using two such filters in combination with a polarization coupler. The filter also has low insertion losses at 6 and 11 GHz: 0.1 dB and 0.06 dB, respectively, a good return loss, 32 dB, and a short length, 2 1/2 ft. Additionally, it has high power-handling capability, good isolation properties, and good mode purity."
"Pump noise transfer in paramps is related to the sensitivity of amplifier gain to AM and FM pump modulation. Measurements performed on an S-band paramp with an 18.4-GHz pump are described. The significance of the results is made explicit by using them to calculate the increase in amplifier noise temperature associated with an IMPATT oscillator pump."
"The boundary value problem associated with the shielded microstripline structure is formulated in terms of a rigorous hybrid-mode representation. The resulting equations are subsequently transformed, via the application of Galerkin's method in the spectral domain, to yield a characteristic equation for the dispersion properties of shielded microstrip lines. Among the advantages of the method are its simplicity and rapid convergence. Numerical results are included for several different structural parameters. These are compared with other available data and with some experimental results."
"Mixed mode bandpass filters are described which utilize alternating TE/sub 011//spl deg/ and TE/sub n11//spl deg/ circular waveguide cavity modes. This novel filter configuration exhibits both excellent unloaded Q and spurious mode response characteristics. The use of mixed resonant modes makes possible the design of microwave filters for both in-line side wall connected cylindrical resonators as well as folded planar filter configurations, whereby cross-coupling between selected resonators can be realized."
"An alternate derivation of the admittance matrix of n coupled lines is presented. The method uses the superposition of two modes of excitation analagous to the even and odd mode excitation used for the analysis of two coupled lines. Only mutual capacitance to adjacent lines is considered."
"In this letter an identity is proven which allows easy analysis of many coupled trasmission-line structures."
"The application of the distributed feedback concept to generate acoustic surface waves is discussed. It is shown that surface corrugation of the piezoelectric boundary in a semiconductor-piezoelectric surface acoustic wave amplifier could lead to self-sustained oscillation."
"A 330-MHz surface acoustic wave (SAW) interferometer is described. The delay for the interferometer is provided by a 6.67-/spl mu/s ST quartz SAW delay line. The interferometer is capable of 50-dB nulls of 150-kHz periodicity over a 10-MHZ instantaneous bandwidth."
"The residue calculus method of investigation of certain waveguide configurations makes use of the asymptotic properties of the gamma function. Usually the range of the variables concerned is such that this approximation is quite adequate. In a recent investigation of a very narrow waveguide junction peculiar numerical effects were traced to a condition where the variables were much too small to warrant the use of the usual asymptotic formula. A new and very simple modification extends the asymptotic form right down to zero with an error of, at most, only a few percent."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The device considered in this study is a semiconductor waveguide isolator consisting of a hollow column of a semiconductor mounted coaxially in a circular waveguide in a longitudinal dc magnetic field. An elementary and physical analysis based on the excitation of plane waves in the guide and a more rigorous mode-matching analysis (MMA) are presented. These theoretical predictions are compared with experimental results for an InSb isolator at 94 GHz and 7.5 K."
"Characteristics of surface magnetostatic waves (SMW) propagating in the direction perpendicular to an external dc magnetic field and interacting with drifting carriers in semiconductors were studied. Loss of the waves was observed to be decreased due to the interaction with drifting carriers even if the drift velocity of carriers did not exceed the phase velocity of the waves."
"The effect of a metal plate on the propagation characteristics of surface magnetostatic waves (SMW) propagating perpendicular to an external dc magnetic field was studied by varying the spacing of the metal plate from the ferrite surface. Continuous passband control is obtained by changing the spacing from zero to infinity and the existence of a partial stopband for the interchange of the input and output ports is also obtained in addition to the disappearance of nonreciprocal propagation for a finite spacing of the metal plate."
"An exact method for the computation of the characteristic impedance matrix of coplanar coupled multiconductor stripIines with arbitrary widths is presented. The system of conductors is enclosed in a rectangular shielding box with a homogeneous dielectric medium. Use is made of conformal mapping by hyperelliptic integrals. The reverse problem of determining the geometrical dimensions for a given characteristic impedance matrix is solved by employing an optimization procedure in conjunction with carefully determined initial approximations. This yields low computer running time compared to current methods for the treatment of multiconductor transmission lines."
"The variational method is used to determine the propagation characteristics of an optical fiber consisting of a core with an arbitrary refractive-index distribution and a uniform cladding. The problem is first translated into a variational problem; the factional is computed upon the TEM-approximation basis. The variational problem is then solved by using the Rayleigh-Ritz method. The computed propagation characteristics are presented for refractive-index distributions of practical interest. The single-mode condition for a quadratic self-focusing fiber is obtained as v < 3.53 where v denotes the conventionally used normalized frequency; this result agrees with the numerical analysis by Dil and Blok. The obtained characteristic equations for the simplest case (uniform core case) are compared with analytic solutions to ensure the validity of the analysis."
"An accurate and efficient method was developed for computing the resonant frequencies of microstrip resonators. The formulation of the problem was carried out rigorously using the full-wave analysis rather than the quasi-static approximation. The characteristic equation was derived using Galerkin's method applied in the Fourier transform domain. The accuracy of the method has been proven by comparing the numerical results with the experimental data. Numerical data have been provided for the microstrip resonators with different structural parameters. Finally, the results for microstrip resonators have been used for predicting the end effect at the open end of microstrip structures."
"Shooting methods are used to analyze rectangular waveguides containing inhomogeneous lossy dielectrics. The technique obtains the electromagnetic fields inside the waveguide by solving Maxwell's equations using trial and error procedures to match the boundary conditions at the conducting waveguide surface. Dispersion and attenuation curves are obtained which show how continuous dielectric inhomogeneities and losses affect the transmission characteristics of these waveguides."
"Operation modes of a waveguide Y circulator with a circular and a triangular ferrite post are investigated both theoretically and experimentally. Field analysis is carried out taking into consideration the field variation along the ferrite axis. Frequencies are calculated by assuming TM modes nearly agree with measured frequencies. It is shown that the circulator action occurs at frequencies where two HE modes interfere with each other, besides occurring at HE mode resonance frequencies. Effects of Teflon spacers on circulator performances are investigated in detail."
"The crossed-field and in-line Mason circuit models for interdigital surface-wave transducers give opposite predictions for the dependence of acoustic reflection coefficients on electric load resistance for purely resistive loads. Experiments described herein show that the crossed-field model correctly describes the reflections for YX quartz, ST-X quartz, and YZ lithium niobate substrates. A low-resistance load minimizes reflections for transducers with double electrodes operating at the fundamental synchronous frequency. For single electrode transducers, optimum reflection suppression may call for a load resistance comparable to the transducer impedance."
"Sign errors in an existing closed form solution for the reflection coefficient along an exponentially tapered transmission line have been corrected and the solution has been modified by the use of electrical line length. This allows useful graphs for the input impedance of the tapered line to be computed which are normalized with respect to frequency and system impedance. The graphs clearly demonstrate both the broad-band and narrow-band properties of the tapered line."
"The transmission properties of spherical TE and TM modes in a perfectly conducting conical waveguide are treated in detail. To start with, an analytically simple and highly accurate digital-computer based iterative algorithm has been employed to evaluate the eigenvalues associated with the spherical TE and TM modes within the guide irrespective of the flare angle (2alpha/sub 0/) of the conical waveguide (theta < 2alpha/sub 0/ < 360/spl deg/). Subsequently, explicit expressions for the attenuation constant, phase constant, phase velocity, and wave impedance are obtained for the spherical modes transmitted within the guide. Accurate eigenvalues obtained numerically are used to study the variation of attenuation constant, phase constant, phase velocity, and wave impedance as a function of the radial distance from the apex with alpha/sub 0/ as a parameter. Measured data on the phase constant of a conical waveguide for the TE/sub 11/ mode have been compared with the analytical results obtained by calculation and an excellent agreement between the two justifies the validity of the analysis presented. Finally, a study of the phase coherence between the dominant spherical TE and TM modes within the guide is presented which may be fruitfully employed in the design of dual-mode conical waveguides."
"In the microwave solid-state oscillators using bulk effect and avalanche diodes, high dielectric constant ceramics have been used as a temperature compensator and excellent temperature stability is obtained. An X-band avalanche diode oscillator is tested over a wide temperature range. The frequency drift is improved to be less than +30 kHz//spl deg/C. Additional advantages of this technique are compact size and low cost."
  "The properties of a Rayleigh surface wave propagating in tantalum oxide thin films on YX quartz are presented. Dispersion and acoustic wave loss measurements are made using the optical probe technique."
 "A parallel plate transmission line circuit has been developed which facilitates rapid testing of experimental TRAPATT diodes. In this circuit the impedance of each tuning element can be continuously varied. This is an appreciable advantage over conventional coaxial TRAPATT circuits which use fixed diameter slugs."
"A graphical computation method is described for transforming complex load impedances into resistive load impedances using transmission line matching sections. The Smith chart is used even though the characteristic impedance normalizing factor is unknown."
 "Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This Proceedings of the First International Conference on Submillimeter Waves and Their Applications is dedicated to our departed friend and colleague"
"Special Issue on the Proceedings of the First International Conference on Submillimeter Waves and Their Applications"
"Optical pumping of polar molecules by means of infrared lasers is expected to lead to thousands of laser lines throughout the submillimeter-wave region. Already, 282 new laser lines between 34 mu m and 1.814 mm in 18 different molecules have been reported. Very stable CW operation, very high pulsed output, linear polarization, high gain, and many other advantages over discharge excitation are offered."
"Intense superradiant laser action in the far infrared (FIR) has been observed in several gases optically pumped with a CO/sub 2/ transversely excited atmospheric-pressure (TEA) laser. A maximum FIR power of 100 kW was observed from CH/sub 3/F at 496 mu m. Characteristics of the system and possibilities of scaling to higher powers are also discussed."
"The radiative emission from impact-ionized shallow donors in n-type InSb provides a tunable far-infrared source, the properties and applications of which are investigated. To obtain optimum conditions, the radiation intensity is studied independence of the sample volume and the electric- and magnetic-field intensities. The source is applied to measure the Zeeman splitting of the shallow donors in n-InP and n-GaAs."
"The mixing of various pairs of CO/sub 2/ laser lines in a nonlinear material can produce thousands of step-tunable far infrared (FIR) signals in the range 70-mu m-7-mm wavelength with frequency spacings of less than 0.1 cm/sup -1/. The major problem in realizing these coherent signals is achieving phase matching in a suitable nonlinear material. In this paper, the interest is in generating tunable signals at the milliwatt level in a planar-dielectric integrated-optics waveguide configuration. Phase rnatching can be achieved with cubic materials (i.e., GaAs) by adding the waveguide dispersion to the bulk dispersion. Work on the analysis of the waveguide mixing system and its correlation with experimental data are described for a planar GaAs dielectric waveguide in the 100-1000-mu m wavelength range."
"Radiation from an intense relativistic electron beam at submillirneter wavelengths has been measured with bandpass and high-pass filters. Radiated power ~100 kW has been measured in the passband 390-540 mu m. The generation of this radiation depends on giving the electrons a large energy component transverse to the magnetic field. Coherent wave generation mechanisms which may account for the observed radiation are discussed."
"Heterodyne detection with a point-contact Josephson junction has been investigated both experimentally and theoretically. The measured performance of the device at 36 GHz is in good agreement with the theory. By operating vanadium point contacts at 1.4 K, we have achieved a single-sideband (SSB) mixer noise temperature of 54K with a conversion gain of 1.35 and a signal bandwidth on the order of 1 GHz. From our results we can extrapolate a potentially impressive performance for these devices at submillimeter wavelengths."
"The dependence of the resistivity and far infrared (FIR) absorptance on donor concentration, compensation, and temperature in compensated n-type Si is reported. The effect of environment, time constant, and spectral passband on the noise equivalent power (NEP) of the compensated Si bolometer is examined and compared with similar calculations for the compensated Ge bolometer."
"Schottky diodes have been used for submillimeter , heterodyne detection and harmonic mixing. Using a carcinotron local oscillator at 890 mu m, sensitive detectors of optically pumped lasers have been demonstrated up to fifth harmonic mixing at 1757.5 GHz. The measured noise equivalent power (NEP) in fundamental mixing is approximately 10/sup -16/ W/Hz."
"The best defectivity at room temperature is obtained with a TGS single-crystal plate 10 mu m thick: D*(47/spl deg/C) = 6xl0/sup 8/ W/sup -1/ Hz/sup 1/2/ cm. It is shown that epitaxial layers can give as good or better detectivities."
"A slow-scan \"real-time\" Michelson interferometer and a new rapid-scan interferometer using signal averaging techniques and fast Fourier transform (FFT) spectrum computation are described and compared. Typical performances of both instruments are illustrated."
"Modem interferometric techniques now permit the measurement of broad-band absorption spectra of gases at submillimetric wavelengths to high resolution with comparative ease. This paper describes briefly some new spectra of H/sub 2/O, N/sub2/O, and SO/sub 2/ in the 10-40 cm/sup -1/ (0.33 to 1.4 THz) region, at a resolution of 0.05 cm/sup-1/."
"A far-infrared Fourier interferometer for amplitude-phase reflection spectroscopy on solids is described. It can be used with small samples at low temperatures and with fairly high resolution (<0.1 cm/sup -1/). The spectral range presently is 10-1000 cm/sup -1/."
"Recent advances in dispersive Fourier spectrometry are described. The complex refractive indices of lossy materials are now directly measurable over a wide spectral range which extends from rnicrowavelengths to the midinfrared. Some results for liquid ethanol and butanol are presented and interpretation of the spectra in terms of hydrogen bonding is offered."
"A new technique is described for measuring the amplitude and phase-reflection spectra of solids in the far infrared. The field of view in the fixed arm of a Michelson interferometer is divided by screens to aflow the specimen and reference mirror to be placed side by side. Interferograms are then recorded by reflection from each in turn so that phase errors arising from the physical replacement of the reference mirror by the specimen are eliminated. The method is demonstrated with room-temperature and low-temperature measurements on a crystal of KBr."
"Noise measurements in the frequency regions 5-200 HZ and 5.2 x 10/sup -4/ -8.3 x 10/sup -3/ Hz have been performed in the wavelength region between 300 and 3000 mu m from the high altitude observatory of Tests Grigia, Italy (3.500 m). In the high frequency region a specially designed Ge bolometer operating in background-limited-infrared-photoconductor conditions matched to a 1.5-m telescope has been used, while at low frequency a radiometer designed for atmospheric transmittance measurements was employed. In both regions no excess noise with respect to the photon noise relative to 300-K blackbody has been detected."
"The optimal characteristics of amplitude splitters for submillimeter radiation beams are determined. Versions of optical schemes with large light gathering power (LGP) utilizing such splitters are proposed. Using them, high sensitivity receiving devices for the 2-0.2-mm waveband region with Fabry-Perot interferometers (FPI) and Michelson interferometers (MI) and n-InSb immersion detectors (spectroradiometers) are constructed."
"We have developed and flown a balloon-borne liquid-heliumcooled spectrometer to measure the cosmic background radiation in the 3 -18-cm/sup -1/ region. It features a cooled horn antenna, a polarizing Michelson interferometer, and a germanium bolometer. These design features and the performance of the instrument are discussed."
"Recent advances in the development of high power submillimeter lasers have opened up new areas of investigation in the study of laser plasma interactions. These areas include studies of laser-induced gas breakdown and plasma heating at cyclotron resonance, laser-induced breakdown effects in solids, and studies of Iaser-generated parametric instabilities in arc plasmas. In addition, high power submillimeter lasers can be used for important diagnostic measurements in Tokamak plasmas. These measurements include the determination of ion temperature by Thomson scattering and the measurement of transverse thermal conductivity by resonant local heating."
"The Alcator electron density (10/sup 13/ < n/sub e/ < 10/sup 14/ cm/sup -3/) has been measured with a 337-mu m Mach-Zender interferometer. A detailed description of the interferometer is given. Results are discussed and compared with microwave interferometry data."
"A wire-mesh Fabry-Perot interferometer with millisecond response time has been constructed. The application of this instrument to study the millimeter and submilliieter synchrotrons radiation emitted by magnetically confined Tokamak plasmas is discussed."
"Collective HCN-laser scattering may become a useful diagnostic for waves and fluctuations in plasmas in the parameter range of Tokamak and Stellarator. Conditions for the measurement of the scattered spectrum are given and a resulting detection system, using a whisker detector in a heterodyne mode of operation, is described."
"The dynamic properties of antiferromaggets with Dzyaloshinsky interaction were investigated at wavelengths 0.3- 14 mm, in magnetic fields up to 300 kOe and temperature 4.2-400 K. The problems of impurities, field induced phase transitions, types of spin oscillation, etc., for different types of antiferromagnets with Dzyaloshinsky interaction are discussed. Based on the investigation results, a new approach to the physics of magnetic phenomena, using the complete rational basis of invariants and avoiding potential series expansion, has been developed."
"Absorption spectra of biaxial antiferromagnets have been studied from 7.5 to 500 cm/sup -1/. Ordering directions and the g tensor are determined. A new spin-wave branch and spin-phonon interaction will be described."
"Absorption and photoconductivity of 337-mu m radiation in Sb-doped Ge with excess donor concentrations ranging from 1.2 x 10/sup 16/ to 3.6 x 10/sup 17/ cm/sup -3/ have been investigated at liquid-He temperatures. The result suggests the existence of a \"delocalized\" excited state between the conduction band and the donor ground state which arises from the overlapping of donor wave functions."
"A high pressure far infrared cell operating to truly hydrostatic pressures of 8 kbar is described and used to determine the anharmonic self-energies associated with the q /spl ap/ 0 transverse optic modes of ionic solids."
"In contrast to magnetotransmission and magnetophotoconductivity measurements in tellurium the radiation-induced Nernst effect reveals impurity and cyclotron transitions exactly and is not obscured by other effects as demonstrated in samples of different dislocation densities."
"The results are presented of the detailed studies on the exciton absorption spectra in ultrapure Ge in the spectrum regions 0.67-1.1 and 1.7-3.7 meV with a backward-wave tube radiation. It is shown that the measured spectrum corresponds to the exciton's transitions from the ground to excited states. As a result of temperature measurements at 1.6-4.2 K the phase transition of excitons into the condensed state has been observed without the formation of excitonic molecules."
"Resonance techniques at 337 mu m (890 GHz) are used to study the performance of modified H guide as a low-loss waveguide and of open resonators using spherical mirrors for media characteristic measurement."
"The problems connected wih the design of a blackbody reference standard for the submillimeter region are discussed. An emittance of better than 99.9 percent is obtained using a relatively small cavity."
"Calculations have been made of the inversion-asymmetry-induced electric-dipole moment of the spin-resonance conduction-band transition in InSb. This moment leads to a second-order nonlinear polarization which resonates for difference-frequency mixing when the incident radiation frequencies differ by the spin-flip frequency. Comparison with experiments confirms that the dominant contribution to far-infrared difference mixing is from the magnetic-dipole source. However, it is shown that a value for the InSb-band parameter C may, in principle, be determined from the results of mixing experiments. It is also noted that electric fields in excess of 5 V/cm/sup -1/ should induce stronger mixing than given by the preceding two mechanisms. Observations of far-infrared radiation tunable over the range 85-105 cm/sup -1/ and at power levels of up to 10 muW are reported. These are obtained by mixing 10.6-mu m TEA-CO/sub 2/-laser radiation with the tunable Stokes radiation produced by spin-flip Raman-laser action in an InSb sample. It is argued that considerable improvement in the power levels should be achieved by modifying the experimental setup."
"The concept of a phased array of far-infrared (FIR) or submilliieter (SMM) waveguide lasers that can be scanned electronically is presented. Grating lobe reduction by computer analysis is shown. Possible applications of SMM arrays are considered."
"The submillimeter laser transitions of CF/sub 2/CH/sub 2/ have been assigned to pure rotation transitions in the v/sub 9/, v/sub 4/,and v/sub 5/ + v/sub 10/ vibrational states using results from laser Stark spectroscopy."
"A transient plasma is located within the Fabry-Perot resonator of a dc hydrogen cyanide laser. Plasma tuning sweeps the resonator modes through the emission line of the HCN molecules and produces pulses of far-infrared output radiation. Pulse production by hydrogen, nitrogen, helium, and argon pulsed plasmas is discussed."
"Required megawatt-level 30-MHz Iinewidth 496-mu m radiation for plasma diagnostics may be achieved in CH/sub 3/F using an oscillator-pulse-amplfier combination employing transverse optical pumping (TOP). It is estimated that an upper limit of 150 J of CO/sub 2/ laser pump energy is required to produce 1-MW (0.07-J 60-ns) far-infrared (FIR) pulses."
"We have designed two- and three-element shaped reflecting telescopes which minimize diffraction losses and sidelobes for submillimeter radiometric and spectrometric application. New solutions for the near-field output of an off-axis paraboloid when illuminated with a beam of considerable power taper (20 dB) show the merit of using Gaussian illumination for which the feed telescope may be explicitly designed. Conventional long-focus Cassegrain telescopes can, by using a suitably positioned off-axis conic to give a condensed focal patch, be converted for submillimeter sky chopping."
"The atmospheric attenuation at 1.3 and 0.87 mm was measured above Mount Hamilton, California in the period December 5 to December 9, 1973. The measured value of the zenith attenuation varied from 1 to 5 dB at 1.3 mm over this five-day period, and was 2.5 dB at 0.87 mm on December 9, 1973. The total beamwidth of the 120\" Lick Observatory telescope used in the Coude configuration was measured to be 3' at 1.3 mm."
  "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "The 1974 IEEE S-MTT International Microwave Symposium was hosted by the Atlanta Joint Chapter of MTT and AP and held on the campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology and at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel, Atlanta, Ga., June 12-14, 1974."
"Three Society awards were presented at the annual MTT banquet held at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel during the 1974 MTT Symposium. These awards were the Microwave Prize, the Microwave Applications Award, and the Microwave Career Award. The Microwave Prize is given for the best paper on a microwave subject published during the previous year. The Microwave Applications Award is a new award, presented aperiodically to an individual for an outstanding application of microwave theory and techniques. The Microwave Career Award is also a new award, to be presented aperiodically to an individual for a career of meritorious achievement and outstanding technical contributions in the field of microwave theory and techniques."
"The following is the keynote address given on June 12, 1974 by J. J. Guarrera, President of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., at the combined AP/MTT Special Session. Our thanks go to him and all the Georgia Tech staff and administration for serving as the host institution for the several symposia that were being held in Atlanta during this time."
"The performance and application of double-drift silicon IMPATT diodes designed for pulsed operation at frequencies between 8.5 and 18 GHz are described. Peak pulse powers greater than 18 W at 10 GHz and 13.5 W at 16.5 GHz were obtained for 800-ns pulses at a 25-percent duty cycle with the average junction-temperature, rise limited to 200/spl deg/C. Conversion efficiencies were between 11 and 13.7 percent. The microwave cavity and pulsed bias circuitry are described in detail."
"A generalized method for the determination of semiconductor device package characteristics in the form of linear lumped element networks is described. The method is based upon a computer algorithm for the reduction of mean square error between measured and calculated impedance and is applicable to any package geometry in any microwave circuit media. Impedance measurements are made with the device in situ, without requiring special reference packages. Rapid convergence is obtained by an analysis of the pole-zero configuration of a lossless approximation to the measured data for obtaining initial element values. Results are given for IMPATT and TRAPATT devices in coaxial and microstrip circuits, together with an experimental demonstration of the validity of the result for a TRAPATTdiode in a 20-Omega microstrip circuit."
"A technique for large signal characterization of microwave power transistors is described. A computer-controlled apparatus is used to map contours of constant power and efficiency on a Smith chart for dynamic matching of both input and output circuits."
"Design consideration and experimental performance of a new transmission-cavity-controlled Silicon-lMPATT-diode oscillator for millimeter wavelengths are described. The oscillator has the frequency stability of 1 x 10/sup -4/ over a temperature variation of 0-50/spl deg/C and remarkably improved noise characteristics, and is free from troublesome moding problems. Discussion is made of the circuit design that satisfies frequency stabilization, noise reduction, mode stabilization, and circuit-efficiency improvement."
"Ultralow capacitance low-noise Schottky-barrier diodes have been developed for use in the 1--2-mm-wavelength region. The diodes have been fabricated using both photolithographic and electron-beam lithographic techniques. Use of the latter technique to make diodes shaped as crossed stripes of width 0.25 mu m and 0.4 mu m on epitaxial GaAs resulted in a 30-percent reduction in spreading resistance over that of photolithographically formed circular diodes with approximately the same junction area and capacitance. Because of this reduction, it is suggested that in order to minimize receiver noise figure at frequencies greater than about 200 GHz, it will prove advantageous to use such shaped diodes rather than the conventional circular ones. The diodes were used in mixers operating at 140, 175, and 230 GHz. At 140 and 175 GHz the diodes were mounted in conventional Sharpless wafers. At 230 GHz, in addition to Sharpless wafers, a mixer of unique design was used which incorporated an RF matching element, low-pass filter, and IF output transmission line, all on stripline, whose performance was optimized using low-frequency scaling techniques. Mixer double side-band (DSB) noise figures of 3.8, 8.1, and 12.6 dB were measured at the three frequencies, respectively. At 175 and 230 GHz, however, mixer performance is degraded due to a lack of sufficient local oscillator (LO) power and this is currently the principal limitation to their performance."
"The optimization of S-band TRAPATT oscillators has been investigated experimentally from both the device and circuit points of view. Methods for selecting a device for optimum operation with a given circuit are discussed. A relatively straightforward circuit optimization technique has resulted in an increase in oscillator efficiency of between 5 and 8 percentage points, representing an RF power increase of approximately 20 percent."
"A general circuit model resembling a combline-type structure is developed using the concept of self and mutual node admittances rather than self and mutual capacitances per unit length. The merit of this approach lies in the relative simplicity of design formulas readily applicable to filters utilizing microstrip or stripline construction. It also offers easy adaptability to computer sided design. Equations are derived relating even-odd mode impedances and transmission line lengths to prototype elements and other design parameters."
"Experimental and theoretical results are presented demonstrating some novel properties of a new class of filters based on inhomogeneous coupled-line structures having large even-odd mode-velocity ratios, e.g., a single inhomogeneous coupled-line filter section with an equiripple, 3-peak stopband and passband response."
"A method is presented to obtain the scattering matrix of two-port junctions consisting of a waveguide inhomogeneously loaded with ferrite. Some approximations are discussed and numerical results obtained for the dielectric-loaded twin-slab phase shifter in rectangular waveguide."
"A structure which is important as an example of a spatially periodic medium for microwave propagation is analyzed theoretically, with rigorous consideration of its partial dielectric composition, symmetry properties; and field configuration relating to its use for electron-wave interaction in a crossed-field amplifier (CFA). The analysis is carried out in a quasi-TEM approximation, leading to determination of a complex potential function within the unit cell and the associated normal-mode parameters: effective dielectric constant, phase velocity, and characteristic impedance, as functions of phase per cell and mode symmetry. With imposition of meander-line boundary conditions, solutions of the characteristic equation for the dispersion law of the structure are computed, including the influence of the inhomogeneous dielectric-vacuum construction of microstrip. Agreement with the observed phase and stopband features of a representative structure is very good. Power distribution and group velocity are calculated, and an interaction impedance, representing the coupling between the RF field and an electron beam for estimation of CFA performance is also calculated. The method lends itself to detailed computations, including the effects of structural features of practical slow-wave circuits."
"As the frequency spectrum extends to the millimeter wave range, the rapid rise in intrinsic loss and the diminishing physical dimensions greatly curtail the usefulness of conventional waveguide filters in dominant mode waveguide. The incentive for designing filters in over-moded waveguide is all too apparent. However, filter design in over-moded waveguide faces challenging design criteria, such as mode conversion loss and intrinsic loss, ease of being analyzed and synthesized, and feasibility for economical fabrication. A filter structure is presented which fulfills all aspects of the design objectives. The structure involves a type of discontinuity which is not only free from mode conversion but also extremely simple to characterize analytically. The latter renders feasible the use of available filter synthesis techniques. While the proposed filter structure can be designed either as a bandpass filter, a bandstop filter or a low-pass filter in an over-moded uniform waveguide of arbitrary cross section, for illustration purposes only the low-pass filter in over-moded circular waveguide is discussed in great detail. Design theories are presented which allow the proposed structure to be designed either by the image method or by operating parameter filter synthesis. Excellent agreement between the theory and measurements made on filter models is shown."
"This paper reviews the characteristics of integrated fine line, a low-loss transmission line which is compatible with batch-processing techniques and superior to microstrip in several respects at millimeter wavelengths. Relative to microstrip, fin-line can provide less stringent tolerances, greater freedom from radiation and higher mode propagation, better compatibiliy with hybrid devices, and simpler interfaces with waveguide instrumentation. Examples of solid-state and passive components are presented which illustrate the potential of integrated fin-line at millimeter wavelengths. The examples include a p-i-n attenuator which has demonstrated the capability of constructing low-loss semiconductor mounts in fin-line. A four-pole bandpass filter, which performs in close agreement with theory, is also discussed."
"This paper presents the development of two microwave integrated circuit (MIC) broad-band, high-performance directional couplers with dielectric overlays. The respective nominal coupling values of these components are 6 and 10 dB with useful bandwidths in excess of 3.4:1. Thorough descriptions of the design procedure, performance, and fabrication techniques are presented in sufficient detail to permit duplication of these couplers. The computer-aided design method used to develop these couplers is modeled to treat parallel-coupled microstrip lines with a dielectric overlay and is also suitable for developing directional filters and Schiffman phase shifters of similar construction. This and other design methods available for developing dielectric-overlay couplers are reviewed with particular attention given to related technological areas that warrant further investigation."
"An equivalent circuit including the stray reactance of a microstrip-type lumped-element circulator is derived to establish the design procedure, and it is shown theoretically that a broad-band circulator with a 30-percent bandwidth can be reafized. Additionally, to obtain the broad-band characteristics over a wide range of temperatures, the necessary temperature coefficients of ferrite materials and magnets are calculated. A new ferrite material with a low temperature coefficient as well as a new fabrication process for thin-film crossovers have been developed. The experiments indicate that a radial magnetizing field improves the circulator characteristics in both bandwidth and loss. An experimental circulator exhibits the following characteristics over a wide temperature range from -10 to 60/spl deg/C: VSWR < 1.2, loss < 1.0 dB, and isolation >20 dB over a bandwidth of 450 MHz centered at 1.7 GHz."
"An encapsulated dual-gate GaAs Schottky barrier gate FET has been characterized with an equivalent circuit representation. The second gate bias dependence of the transconductance has suggested that the FET can be used as a variable-gain smplifying device at microwave frequencies. The experiments on the variable-gain amplifiers with the dual-gate GaAs FET's have exhibited the following. 1) Broad-band amplification can be achieved by adopting a stagger tuning technique, although the Q's of the input and output of the GaAs FET are much higher than those of the Si bipolar transistor. 2) The gain can be controlled only by the second gate bias voltage without degradation of bandpass performance. The results have shown the feasibility of the dual-gate GaAs FET for a microwave variable-gain amplifier."
"The use of microelectronic technology in the design of a frequency-agile portable microwave repeater (PMR) provides for light-weight compact construction without sacrifice of performance. The instrument is intended for use as an up and down converter in FM systems and operates at 20-MHz channels in the 3.7-4.2-GHz band with a 70-MHz intermediate frequency (IF). A brief discussion of its design indicates the significance of each microelectronic assembly. Key microelectronic designs include a 4-GHz transistor preamplifier with a 5-dB noise figure, a 4-GHz double-balanced mixer of coplanar construction, and a 4-GHz power amplifier with 1.5 W of output power. Comments are offered regarding the advantages and limitations of microelectronic design. Back-to-back instrument performance yields 0.2-dB flatness and 2-ns group delay over a /spl plusmn/7-MHz band measured at 70 MHz. FM noise performance is discussed."
"Solid-state array radar is of gyeat current interest because of the inherent reliability of solid-state devices and the concomitant promise for improvement in system reliability. However, no extensive reliability base has been established for solid-state devices employed under radar operating requirements. In this paper some of the important factors bearing a device reliability are treated. Accelerated life tests under RF conditions are presented for L-band power transistors. Preliminary life-test and failure-analysis data are also presented with recommendations on how the information can be used by the radar systems designer."
"A superior microwave-frequency synthesis technique is treated in this paper, emphasizing improved spectral purity with octave bandwidths in the microwave region. The microwave-frequency synthesizer is discussed in two sections each corresponding to a system unit. The driver unit specifications are analyzed in the first section, showing its voltage-controlled crystal oscillator (VCXO) L(f ) output to be -130 dBc/Hz at 10 kHz. In the second section, the driver VCXO output is translated in the microwave unit to the final X-band frequency by means of a phase-locked loop. An analysis of this phase-locked loop, as described in this paper, shows the final L(f ) equal to -101 dBc/Hz at 10 kHz. Since a worst case situation was assumed, the final L(f ) is quite superior for octave bandwidth microwave-frequency synthesizers."
"Although conceptually straightforward, the application of existing automated network analyzers to the problem of adapter evaluation is inhibited by the limited accuracy of the detection process, the requirement for several impedance standards at each frequency, and software problems. A hardware modification, which yields improved accuracy for adapter evaluation, is described. An alternative calibration procedure is outlined which exploits this improved accuracy potential, and which requires only one impedance standard."
"The power equation concept has been implemented into a multioctave precision bolometer unit calibration system employing automation techniques in conjunction with an automatic network analyzer (ANA) system. Using statistical methods the system is being evaluated as a calibration transfer system operating in the 2-12.4-GHz frequency range at 1-10 mW. preliminary results reported here show a single measurement standard deviation of 0.2-1 percent from 2-10 GHz. Upon a successful evaluation, the system will be qualified as an integral part of the national measurement system."
"An interface has been developed to allow the measurement of sampled integral-dose rate, defined as the change in integral dose during a particular time interval divided by that interval, absorbed by test animals as they are exposed in a waveguide to 2450-MHz CW microwave energy. The purpose of this investigation is to quantify the variations in sampled integral-dose rate as a result of the animal movements and to compare different irradiation procedures with respect to variations in sampled integral-dose rate."
"A theoretical method has been developed to determine the electromagnetic field induced inside heterogeneous biological bodies of irregular shapes. A tensor integral equation for the electric field inside the body was derived and solved numerically for various biological models."
"Hybrid-integrated millimeter-wave sources at 30, 60, and 100 GHz have been built using a novel oscillator configuration. The new structure features a planar microstrip circuit in a conducting channel with an IMPATT diode which is inserted into the side wall of the channel. RF efficiencies of 5 percent at an output power of a quarter-watt CW have been measured both at 30 and 60 GHz. The output power at 100 GHz is 25 mW with an efficiency of 2 percent. The oscillators can be readily tuned over a 10-percent bandwidth."
"Half-wavelength line resonators are employed to enlarge the bandwidth of a 50-GHz Y-circulator. The bandwidth is successfully increased from 3.5 to 5.5 GHz. The characteristics of the half-wavelength line resonator are described."
"Design and performance of a low-noise down converter and a high-efficiency up converter for transmitter-receiver applications in the frequency range of 60-86 GHz are described in this short paper. The receiver and the transmitter are used in a guided millimeter-wave transmission system \"W-40G\" A wafer-type GaAs Schottky-barrier diode is used in both units. The diode mount consists of a semiconductor wafer and a whisker which are mounted in a waveguide circuit. The IF terminal is a coaxial line section which is connected to the whisker. The conversion loss of the up and down converters using the new wafer is 7.5 and 5.5 dB, respectively. The bandwidth of the frequency converters is approximately /spl plusmn/10 percent in the frequency region of 60-86 GHz."
"Millimeter-wave receivers are discussed from the point of view of applications to line astronomy. A heterodyne-bolometer system is described which has a noise temperature of 300 K at 230 GHz."
"Several categories of millimeter wave observations in the range of approximately 20-3 mm are considered. First, the general area of current \"whole sun\" patrol observations conducted with small antennas and simple radiometric receivers is reviewed. The type of solar information derived from such patrols and its application to solar physics and the prediction of solar-geophysical disturbances are discussed. The second area considered is that of current high-resolution solar investigations using antennas with beamwidths as small as 1'. Finally, future ultrahigh resolution work (<10'') using interferometric techniques and the need for such work are discussed."
"Molecular millimeter wave astronomy is briefly reviewed. Particular emphasis is placed on the newer areas of research in astronomy and astrophysics which have been facilitated by radio observations of galactic molecules in the millimeter wavelength range of the spectrum."
"Principles applicable to the control of stored-product insects with radio-frequency (RF) electric energy and general research findings on this topic are reviewed. Data are presented on the frequency dependence of the dielectric constant and dielectric-loss factor of insects and grain, and use of such information is discussed in relation to RF treatment of infested products to control insects. Experimental data that confirm the usefulness of information on dielectric properties are presented. These data show that RF treatment at 39 MHz is much more effective for controlling adult rice weevils in wheat than is treatment at 2450 MHz. Some aspects of practical application are also considered."
"An FM transmitter having 220-mW output power and 5-W total dc input power and operating in the 4-GHz band has been developed. This transmitter provides a dc-to-RF signal-conversion efficiency of more than 4 percent. Featuring low power consumption and high reliability, this transmitter is suitable for use as a transmitter or an exciter for radio relay of a maximum of 1380 channels."
"Proposed C-band distance measuring equipment (DME) requires the use of triodes to generate high-power C-band transmitted pulses. The inherent short life of these triodes necessitates placing this equipment in physically accessible areas of the aircraft, often long distances from the antenna. Losses incurred in transmitting the C-band pulse to the antenna can increase the power requirements of the system. A pulse compression system has been designed to solve the cost of maintenance problems by using reliable low-power solid-state transmitters and also allowing the equipment to be installed close to the antenna. The use of a pulse compression system allows a reduction in peak transmit power by a factor equal to the time bandwidth (BW) product of the transmit pulse. Size, weight, and reliability are also improved by implementing surface wave devices (SWD's) in the pulse compression airborne interrogator."
"The feasibility of a compact bandstop-filter geometry is demonstrated. The filter geometry is particularly suited for stripline and microwave-integrated-circuit (MIC) fabrications in that grounding is not required for any part of the filter. Hybrid geometries allow the filter designer increased flexibility in choosing a suitable shape factor without significantly affecting the filter's electrical characteristics. Folded-line filter geometries are suitable for narrow bandwidths (provided capacitive-coupled stubs are used) to wide-bandwidth applications. Experimental confirmation is presented."
"An automatic test system for determination of the tuning and output characteristics of voltage-controlled solid-state oscillators is described. Hardware, software, and functional capabilities of the broad-band modular system are presented. The utilization of a minicomputer for data collection with on-line curve fit and rapid CRT display of test and analysis results facilitates device tuning and streamlines traditionally tedious measurement tasks."
"A method for the measurement of the dynamic admittance and susceptance of \"negative-resistance\" diodes is described. The device under test is allowed to oscillate in a microwave cavity, and operated as an injection-locked oscillator. Injected locking signals of the same order as the free-running output power of the oscillator are used. The dynamic conductance and susceptance of the device are obtained from the phase and amplitude response of the system."
"A computer-aided design procedure is formulated for L-band-transistor power amplifiers. The procedure incorporates a precision measurement technique for transistor impedances, a model for large step discontinuities in microstrip, and an optimization routine for the direct realization of broad-band matching circuits,"
"The design and performance of broad-band TRAPATT amplifiers in X band are described along with a discussion of critical circuit parameters. Bandwidths of 10 percent and peak powers up to 38 W have been achieved using coaxial circuits with single and multichip diodes."
"A low-noise room-temperature wide-band parametric amplifier is described which could be used, for example, in 12-GHz satellite ground station receivers. The amplifier has a gain of 26 dB, a 1/2-dB bandwidth of 660 MHz, and a noise temperature between 156 and 171 K."
"Noise measurements have been made on an IMPATT pumped S-band parametric amplifier. For the properly adjusted pump, no significant increase in noise temperature was observed for interfering signal levels up to -40 dBm, 20 MHz from the noise measurement frequency."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
 "Noise has always played a major role in the design of microwave systems. The tradeoff problems of transmitter power versus receiver sensitivity in RADAR, antenna size versus receiver sensitivity in communications, system noise temperature versus bandwidth and integration time in radiometry, etc., have always challenged the design engineer in the past and will continue to do so in the future. This lecture concerns itself with these tradeoff problems and presents several points of view relative to optimum performance."
"In the developed countries there has been a remarkable increase in the number of processes and devices that utilize or emit microwaves. Such devices are used in all sectors of our society for military, industrial, telecommunications, medical, and consumer applications. Because of the world-wide implications of the rapidly developing technology and associated health-safety considerations, development and implementation of a program for international cooperation in the use and protective measures reIated to microwave/radiofrequency (MW/RF) exposure is required. Activity in this respect has been initiated by the Regional office for Europe of the World Health Organization (WHO/EURO) which has developed a sector program concerned with the health effects of nonionizing radiation (NIR) as part of its long-term program in environmental pollution control. To implement this program, several steps have been taken with participation by scientists and administrators from several countries. These activities have engendered plans and proposals for facilitating exchange and evaluation of information on the biologic and health effects of microwave radiation and in focusing attention on those areas in which additional information and new approaches are needed."
"Plastic materials used in the construction of relays and in associated equipment units evolve organic vapors; the evolutions can give rise to insulating organic films on catalytically active contact materials such as platinum group metals. A variety of experimental methods have been used to determine the extent and (in some cases) identity of these vapors; these methods are criticized and a standard procedure is outlined and applied in the comparison of over twenty classes of plastic material. Even the best materials can represent some hazard to platinum group metal contacts, so that a careful selection of plastic materials is necessary together with other steps to improve relay reliability."
"The formation of insulating organic films on palladium and various palladium-silver alloy contacts at low voltages in the presence of organic atmospheric contaminants during slide has been investigated on a specially developed equipment, and the performance of the various materials in terms of contact resistance measurements have been compared. The pollutant (iso-propyl alcohol) and its concentration (20 parts per million) were chosen to simulate conditions in an electromechanical relay in which the plastic materials had been carefully chosen for their low organic evolutions. Diagrams summarizing the contact resistance measurements and comparing deposits formed over 5 X 106operations are given. These show that under the test conditions some organic deposits form on all the materials studied except pure silver. However, there is a very large decrease in both the maximum contact resistance measured and the amount of deposit formed when 70% palladium-silver is compared with palladium, and there is a further significant steady improvement when the lower palladium alloys are examined."
"Thick film resistors have been prepared by adding glass frits to the conductive materials of the resistors. By this method, it is found that the resistance of the glass phases in the thick film resistors decreases, with a resulting decrease of voltage drift after applying high voltage pulses to the resistors. In addition, the electrical properties and stability of these resistors are improved over resistors made from some present commercially available pastes."
"The results are reported of a study of the factors which affect the solid-phase bonding of gold wire electrical leads. Gold surfaces were cleaned by sputtering and joined with precise control of mechanical and environmental variables. Contact resistance measurements as a function of load, coefficients of adhesion, and laser interference fringe photo-microtopographs were used as diagnostics to show the effects of cleaning, annealing, loading, and creep. Ultrahigh vacuum techniques and vibration isolation were essential to reproducibly forming and measuring the strengths of solid-phase bonds between gold samples and between gold and tungsten."
"A forty way, two part, printed circuit board connector has been the test vehicle for the evaluation of wear of a number of gold deposits in similar and dissimilar combinations. The proprietary electrolytes, from four suppliers, consisted of four acid cyanide types (cobalt or nickel hardened) two noncyanide (sulphite) and two neutral cyanide organically hardened golds. Assessment of wear was made by scanning electron microscope examination of wear tracks and by changes in contact resistance when the connectors were subsequently exposed to a corrosive environment. The acid Cyanide deposits exhibited least wear, the sulphite types wore excessively by cold pressure welding to produce platelets of debris, and the neutral cyanide golds were of mixed extent of wear. A hypothesis involving a polymer lubrication mechanism is proposed to explain the Iow wear of the acid golds. Scanning electron micrographs support this pro- posal."
"Experiments have been conducted to show the effects of H2S, SO2, NO2and Cl2in simple and complex mixtures on several contact materials. The results have led to the use of two complex mixtures, with and without Cl2and containing 200 ppb each of H2S, SO2and NO2for industrial environment simulation. Acceleration factors were estimated to be on the order of 30-40 times at 30°C."
"The electron beam retarding potential technique was used in a display-type Varian LEED-Auger apparatus to determine work function changes on contact materials Pd, Au, Ag and Pd-Ag 40 at.% (atomic percent). Surface compositional changes were created by heating and argon ion bombardment treatments and monitored by Auger electron spectroscopy. Using the known work function value of atomically clean Pd as a reference, the average work function of each compositional state of the particular contact material was evaluated."
"The wear characteristics Of metal graphite brushes on copper slip-rings are described in this paper. The influence of different parameters on wear and contact resistance is explained by means of the mechanism of current conduction. Wear as well as contact resistance is determined by the mechanism of current conduction. Therefore, it is possible to measure the wear by determining the contact resistance. Thus life tests can be shortened considerably."
"Results are presented of experiments that compare the performance of three ceramic-Ag contact materials (TiC-Ag, TiB2-Ag and NbC-Ag) with the well known WAg contact material. The conductivities of the ceramic-Ag contacts were found to be comparable to that of W-Ag. Erosion measurements in an 880 A 440 V rms circuit showed that the rate of erosion was not a simple function of the ceramic material's heat of evaporation. The erosion mainly occurred through evaporation with some particle ejection in case of the W-Ag and NbC-Ag materials. The ceramic-Ag materials performed well when subjected to testing in a 100 A low voltage circuit breaker. A microstructural evaluation revealed that the contacts could have been improved by lowering the surface tension between the ceramic and silver to achieve better wet- ting."
"A comprehensive review of the large number of contact materials that have been proposed for vacuum interrupter applications is presented. These contact materials are classified into four major groupings: 1) pure metals, 2) alloys, 3) mixtures of refractory materials and good conductors, and 4) mixtures of semirefractory materials and good conductors. Experimental results are presented that give a comparison of how the different materials perform for different circuit interruption conditions. Four performance criteria are used to provide this comparison: a)contact resistance, b)current interruption ability, c) current chop, and d) contact welding."
"Greater insight into the metallurgical properties of existing contact spring materials is necessary so that material selection can be optimized and processing innovations planned and introduced. Age hardenable beryllium nickel has been studied and a unique property of the material identified. Consequently, a significant processing innovation is suggested. Other information provided will help the designer in selecting proper applications for beryllium nickel with greater precision and confidence. A good spring material requires a high modulus of elasticity for stiffness and high yield and tensile strengths to sustain spring loads. The material must also have adequate ductility (approximately 10%) for forming, so that brittle fracture can be avoided. A normal consequence of all hardening mechanisms is an accompanying reduction in ductility; consequently, most age hardenable metals have high strength but low ductility in the hardened state. For this reason it is necessary to first form the material and then age harden it. Beryllium nickel strip of full hard temper was investigated. Ductilities of nonheat treated and heat treated (250-1300°F) strip were determined at room temperature, along with tensile (yield and ultimate strengths) and hardness properties. Transmission electron microscopy was used to study the microstructural changes resulting from the heat treatments, and the observations were correlated with changes in ductility and mechanical strengths. Our experiments have shown that, unlike other age hardenable materials, beryllium nickel increased both in ductility and strength in the range from 250 to 850°F. We have termed this unique phenomenon \"ductility reversal.\" Ductility reversal is shown to be the result of the thermally activated recovery state of annealing. Beryllium nickel heat treated in the range 875 to 975°F shows a drastic drop in elongation values and a corresponding increase in strength. In the range 1000 to 1300°F there is a severe drop in strength and an increase in ductility. This behavior of beryllium nickel (875 to 1300°F) is similar to the traditional age hardenable alloys. The significance of ductility reversal lies in the fact that optimization of ductility at high strength'can yield up to 8 times the ductility usually found in normal coherent precipitation hardened spring materials. Thus beryllium nickel, age hardened by the material supplier at the recommended temperature and possessing the desired properties, can be purchased and directly fabricated without the need for an \"inhouse\" heat treatment, thereby eliminating attendant processing uncertainties and costs. Further, the microstructural and mechanical property data will help the designer select realistic strength-ductility combinations for the design from within the range of the ductility reversal."
 "Gold platings obtained from some solutions contain codeposited organic compounds. It is of interest to know whether such materials affect the friction and wear of electrodeposits which are used on the contacts of slip rings, connectors, and other devices. Studies were made of the polymer contents of golds and, with the scanning electron microscope, their location in the deposits, and the results correlated with sliding properties. Polymers were found in discrete pockets in the deposits, with no detectable organics on their surfaces. There is no evidence that polymers significantly reduce friction and wear by serving as lubricants. The sliding properties of gold electrodeposits are, however, closely related to their hardness, and metallic additives in the gold, such as cobalt or nickel from about 0.1 to 1 percent, are recommended hardener elements. Adventitious organic contaminants from the air can accumulate on surfaces and may provide effective lubrication for lightly loaded sliding gold contacts."
  "Performance of high speed digital and analog hybrid microcircuits almost always differs from the ideal circult design and from a breadboard or PC board version of the same circuit to some extent due to differences in stray effects. This paper discusses computer analysis of inductive and capacitive coupling between various thick-film microcircuit elements in both conventional and multilayer chip and wire hybrid microcircuits. Also discussed are extended circuit modeling techniques for including stray effects of a given microcircuit layout in the computer analysis of the circuit design."
"Negative mutual inductance results from coupling between two conductors having current vectors in opposite directions. As a quantity in electronic circuits, negative mutual inductance is usually so much smaller in magnitude than overall inductance that it can be neglected with little effect. In the microelectronic world, however, its neglect can result in inductance values as much as 30 percent too high. This paper derives inductance equations for planar thin- or thick-film coils, comparing equations that include negative mutual inductance with those that do not. It describes a computer program developed for calculating inductances for both square and rectangular geometries, the variables considered being track width, space between tracks, and number of turns. Graphic results are presented for up to 16 turns over an inductance range of 3 nanohenries to 10 microhenries. Although details of fabrication are not included, the effects of film thickness and frequency on the mutual-inductance parameter are discussed."
"The paper describes the development, characteristics, and application of a controlled impedance hermetic package (ClP) for microcircuit applications in microwave and fast-risetime pulse/digital domains. The primary motive is that of securing a significantly more economical packaging concept for high frequency microcircuits than is currently employed. Machined enclosures employing discrete coaxial connectors are currently widely used. A description is given of this planar package concept which is interfaceable with a strip transmission Iine motherboard. Pertinent electrical characteristics of the CIP including voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) are presented. At this time, the upper limits of VSWR and frequency are 1.15 maximum at 5 gigahertz. The mechanical and physical characteristics, particularly the ability to secure reliable sealing and consequently hermetic-quality leak rates, are discussed. A description of CIP application methods including · microcircuit implanation, assembly, and-motherboard installation finalizes the presentation."
"Multilayer thick film hybrids are sometimes fabricated without adequate concern for their economics. Economy begins in design; it can suffer in processing and be lost in test and assembly: This paper treats some of the cost considerations applied to a large family of multilayer hybrids for use in computer equipment. Design rules for good yields are presented. Some materials selection and processing criteria are discussed. Paste consumption data, screen wear, and substrate yield experience, is given. An arrangement for automated electrical substrate testing is described. A mechanized process for silicon circuit chip attachment and connection is also described."
"The results obtained from a computer-aided thermal analysis of a microwave power transistor are presented. The transistor is somewhat unique in that it has a junction-to-carrier thermal time constant of only about 50µs. The application for which this transistor was desired required that it handle a pulsed power dissipation wherein each pulse has the shape of a fourth power cosine curve with a 7µs on-time add 130 watts peak power. The half-power pulsewidth is, therefore, only about 2.5µs. Although the pulse duration is quilte short, the junction Undergoes temperature excursions of about 30°C during any single pulse. These temperature excursions cannot possibly be detected by either direct electrical measurements or infrared experimental techniques but, nevertheless, have an important effect on the life and reliability of the transistor. The computer-aided analysis technique and the results are discussed in general throughout the paper. Points of interest include the temperature distribution both on and within the chip, the effects of temperature dependent material properties, the use of a heat spreader under the chip, and, finally, the meaning and significance of the thermal time constant for the junction, the chip, the carrier, and other parts of the electronic package."
  "An approach to fabricating multilayer hybrids is described. The newly developed process, designated as the screened multilayer ceramic (SMC) hybrid, has been accomplished by improving green ceramic technology of an aluminarefractory metal system to a state of development similar to thick film screening technology and by developing a unique process that protects against oxidation of refractory metal at high temperature air firing."
"This paper deals in depth with the criteria that govern the design of temperature-controlled substrates for hybrid microcircuits. Pertinent thermal parameters for the more important microcircuit-fabrication materials are presented in tabular form, along with several useful unit-conversion factors. Substrate heat losses due to conduction, convection, and radiation are then analyzed, and equations are developed for determining optimum substrate temperature, steady-state input power, and warm-up characteristics. Control-circuit design is discussed, and consideration is given to power dissipation by circuitry off as well as on the substrate. The effects of changes in ambient temperature on temperature-controlled-microcircuit performance are analyzed. Two applications of this technology are described."
"A thick film approach to state-of-the-art microwave integrated circuits, which has been used to produce thousands of highly reliable low cost S-band and L-band solid state modules for production radar systems is described. These modules include low-noise amplifiers, double conversion mixers, interdigital filters, multiple port power dividers and switches, phase encoders, and power amplifiers. A discussion of the fabrication and microwave properties of thick film conductors, resistors, and capacitors is given along with photographs and performance data of various microwave integrated circuit modules that accumulated over a million device hours in operation without a failure."
 "An earth-horizon sensing device which operates principally in the visible portion of the spectrum has been designed as a hybrid integrated circuit. The circuit was fabricated and tested for use in the LES-8/9 communications satellites as part of the system which maintains the satellites' orientation with respect to earth. The hybrid circuit consists of four silicon chips mounted on a high-density alumina ceramic substrate. Each silicon chip contains eight photodiodes which are shallow junction (approximately 1.5 micrometers)n on p type, and each diode is surrounded by a one-micrometer deep p+ channel stop. The individual diodes in the array have as typical parameters dark currents at five volts of less than 5 nanoamps, breakdown voltages measured at 10 microamps in excess of 70 volts, and a uniformity of photoresponse across an array of + 5%. The choice of the techniques used in the hybridization of this circuit was dictated by the requirements that the four silicon chips be aligned to one another within + 0.001 in., and that the entire assembly survive unpackaged and unencapsulated in a potentially corrosive prelaunch environment. For precise silicon die alignment, the dies were mounted with a gold-filled epoxy. To provide maximum corrosion resistance, a Ti/Pd/Au metallization system was used on both the silicon chips and the alumina substrate, and interconnections from the chips to the substrate were made with thermocompression bonded gold wires. Environmental tests indicate that the complete assembly will survive a Mil Std 202D immersion test with no degradation. The diodes will survive extended aging at 200°C, but the epoxy deteriorates badly after a few hundred hours. A completed sensor aged at 125°C for 720 hours has shown no significant changes."
"The active circuitry for a digital autoranging multimeter has been fabricated on a single hybrie substrate measuring 2.8 X 3.8 cm. The hybrid is realized using tantalum nitride thin film technology. A high temperature passivation process stabilizes the tantalum nitride film. During this process, the absolute value of resistance changes substantially. This change makes the technology unusable in some precision applications. In order to overcome this problem and take advantage of the film's inherently excellent stability, laser trimming is utilized to adjust the absolute value. The result is a stable precision resistor. When the end result of the laser trimming process is a resistor of predetermined value, the operation can be performed by \"passive trimming.\" In many cases, it is desirable to trim the resistor to an unknown value in order to obtain a given circuit response. When this is done to an operating circuit, the procedure is known as \"active trimming.\" In general, a relationship can be determined between a known stimulus and its desired circuit response. The trim procedure can be designed to cause this desired relat onship. Specific algorithms and techniques have been developed to test the sensitivity of a circuit parameter to a given change in trim resistance. The computer controlled system uses this information to determine the succeeding trim magnitude. The use of a computer controller allows the system to handle complicated nonlinear stimulus-response data. Once a hybrid is trimmed, it is effectively a finished product. Since it has been calibrated during the trimming process, there is no need for manual adjustment. One difficulty associated with active laser trimming is duplicating the external circuit while at the same instant connecting the hybrid substrate to noisy probe rings, loading it with capacitances, and subjecting it to-the hostile environment of electromechanical controls. This paper will deal primarily with algorithms developed for active trim and the problems of electrically interfacing the system with the hybrid under test. Most of this experience was achieved during the development of the Hewlett-Packard Model 970A Probe Multimeter."
"A microcircuit interconnection system has been developed which utilizes the advantages of a metal substrate for heat conduction and power distribution combined with a superimposed logic interconnection plane fabricated on 25/\\mum polyimide film. The copper substrate component of the assembly is capable of dissipating 4 W/cm2 to a water-cooled duct and maintaining a chip surface temperature of 45°C above ambient. It supports an expansion matched glass ceramic film which electrically insulates the power distribution plane. All the signal connections are formed by 125/\\mum gold conductors supported on the polyimide film in which through-connections are formed by etched and metallized 38\\mum holes. Direct connections to the emitter coupled logic chips are formed by etching away areas of the polyimide film under the conductor tracks to leave beam leads. Finally, in assembly, the back of the chips supported on the polyimide film are soldered to prepared cavities in the substrate. Test assemblies have demonstrated a threefold increase in system speed for 1 ns integrated circuits as compared with their performance in comparable assemblies on standard printed circuit boards."
"The cost of interconnecting integrated circuits in large arrays has always been a considerable factor in establishing the operating cost effectiveness of high speed digital processors. Now, with the introduction and increasing use of ICs operating at subnanosecond speeds, interconnection systems have become even more of an economic factor because of the electrical limitations they can impose on the maximum speeds at which information can be processed. The electrical effects exerting the greatest influence are propagation velocities, internal crosstalk, sensitivity to RFI and the need for impedance matching between devices. While there are additional mechanical problems in miniaturization, heat dissipation and production costs, the electrical problems have provicled a sufficient incentive to undertake the development of a more compatible interconnecting system. The resulting new system is a discretionary wired, fully shielded and coaxial interconnection system. It has been primarily designed for use with logic elements having pulse rise times in the subnanosecond range, and in its present form is capable of handling pulse rise times of less than 100 picoseconds. A typical system employs conductors with a characteristic impedance of 50 ohms and is capable of .050\" center connections. The primary interconnections are made with .010\" O.D. 50 ohm TFE insulated coaxial conductors that are formed \"in-situ\" by the manufacturing process. The system is fully compatible with printed circuit techniques and additional \"non-critical\" circuitry may be added to the system by these means. The system can also be made compatible with multilayer technology, and \"Hybrid\" systems may be produced. Although the system has many unique features, it is constructed with state-of-the-art materials and processes. It is capable of manufacture, in-process and final inspection by numerically controlled automatic machines. In the basic systern all interconnections are made by a mass process on an exposed surface of the assembly. Since these connections are exposed, changes, while they must be made manual y, can be accommodated. The reliability of the system has not been estab ished but its simplicity, coupled with the fact that it generated no more connections than those of the original circuit diagrams, leads us to believe that it will be very good. It has been established that this new interconnection system can provide predefined and easily controlled characteristics of impedance, minimum attenuation and delay with the precision necessary for constructing high speed processors. In SO doing it can either eliminate or substantially reduce other problems of an electrical nature and offers a maximum of design flexibility with a minimum of engineering and its accompanying costs."
"An advanced thick film multilayering technology using new materials and processes has been developed for the fabrication of hybrid LSl circuits. Not only does this technology offer reduced fabrication time, compared to converttional thick film processing, but it also makes possible 4 mil linewidths and spacings on both conductive layers, and matching 4 mil vias in the dielectric. The resulting interconnection structures are very ordered and hence amenable to high density designs. New technological developments include pattern etching of all layers, use of the new fritless thick film golds, and thermocompression bonding of copper or nickel leads to these fritless conductors. The fabrication of a typical 1.15 inch X 2.4 inch digital hybrid circuit is traced, starting with the blank substrate and concluding with the finished unit furnished with leads, active devices, and hermetic seal. The pertinent materials, equipment and processes are described."
"An apparent latchup condition was observed in a hi-rel dielectrically isolated integrated circuit. The failure mechanism was analyzed and isolated through the use of nondestructive laboratory and radiation tests, and was found to be caused by a short circuit in one of the component transistors of the integrated circuit. This defect remained undetected throughout one-hundred percent high-reliability, quality control, and screening tests. Upon probing and optically viewing the device, the defect was verified to be a collector-to-base metallization short in the suspect transistor. Removal of this short returned the device to proper operation."
"Stress wave emission (SWE) is defined as the elastic waves released within a material as a result of crack propagation due to the application of stress. A SWE in a brittle material is a relatively low-amplitude stress wave that is caused by the release of energy by microstructural events. This type of a phenomenon is best described by the \"Griffith Theory of Solids.\" Since the SWE's are generally thought of as step or delta functions due to the nature of the generating source, their frequency spectrum is very broad. A series of experiments in SWE were conducted to determine the characteristics of the emissions, the instrumentation requirements, and to better understand the phenomenon for its application to brittle materials (glass and ceramic (Al203) thin film substrates). It was found that the detected SWE's released have a frequency spectrum very much like acoustic white noise over the frequency range of 0.1 kHz to approximately 100 MHz. The detection of SWEs in ceramic substrates was accomplished using a broadband 700 kHz piezoelectric transducer whose output amplified and filtered signal indicated the presence of a substrate microcrack. In order to distinguish true signals from faulty ones, a simple likelihood ratio detector was devised, where its threshold was previously experimentally determined."
 "Metal-insulator-lnSb structures with excellent interface properties, as measured at 77 K, have been developed. A simple MIS structure has been fabricated and used to characterize the surface physics of the InSb MIS interface, The C-V characteristics of these structures follow the simple ideal MIS capacitive model. A completely inverted low-frequency type CoV response occurs at about 10 Hz, indicating that the minority carrier thermal relaxation rate is small in these devices. Conductance measurements were made to investigate the interface properties of the MIS structure. These give a detailed description of the interface. Surface state densities in the 1012cm-2eV-1range were found. The experimental results also show that the interface of these structures can be characterized as a Shockley-Read-Hall type. The minority carrier thermal generation in the structure has been further analyzed, via conductance measurements, in the strong inversion region. The current density of the spacecharge generation was determined to be about 3.2 X 10-6A/ cm2. The effect of a photon flux on the generation current for the MIS device is briefly discussed."
"Techniques have been developed that provide disordered semiconducting materials having energy band tails arid electronic properties that are precisely controllable. The materials are heavily doped, closely compensated n-GaAs in which the compensation ratio can be made arbitrarily close to 1. Thus the Fermi level can be controlled within the band tail. This allows measurement of various electrical transport properties as functions of energy. There are many similarities to amorphous semiconductors but with controllability that those materials do not have. Clear evidence is found for progressively greater localization of electrons of lower energy, i.e., no sharp mobility edge. Detailed measurements show an important disagreement with theoretical predictions for the temperature dependence of the conductivity at low temperatures. A very strong dependence of the conductivity on electric field strength is found, with the nonohmic behavior extending down to a few V/cm at 4.2 K. These various properties offer applications in precision thermometry and voltage surge suppression but not as nonvolatile, bistable switches."
"A simple but relatively accurate, approximate technique is presented for analyzing the heat transfer due to natural convection and radiation from parallel-fin heat sinks. This technique accounts for a nonuniform base plate temperature. The finned surfaces and the base plate have been considered to be vertical U-shaped channels and a relationship for the NusseJt number has been used which has a suitable form for both very long and very short fins. The accuracy of the technique has been demonstrated by a testing program on a representative sample of heat sinks."
"The cordwood module has been a part of the electronic Packaging concept for approximately ten years [1]. During that time period all variety of parts have been packaged in this configuration with varying degrees of success and reliability. With the coming of the space age and vacuum environments becoming commonplace, the removal of 'heat has become progressively more difficult with higher packaging densities ,and more' sophisticated piece parts. This paper describes methods utilized in the removal of heat from cordwood modules, arid takes some of the difficulty out of predicting thermal gradients.of piece parts within these modules. Fundamentally, the method is predicated on the use of the equivalent of Ohm's law. and the ability to realistically utilize proper piece part' thermal resistances. Design data and guidelines are presented that allows 'one to achieve designs for minimum weight, maximum thermal efficiency, and high reli- abil'ity."
"This paper describes the effect of chromium deposition rate, gold deposition rate and substrate temperature on the adhesion, resistivity and thermocompression bondability of the film produced. Tantalum nitride coated, aluminum Oxide substrates were used in this work. The adhesion was checked using the standard tape test; the resistivity was measured using a four point probe; and the bondability was evaluated using both fine wires and lead frames. Auger Electron Spectroscopy was used to monitor the surface of the fiim. The results of this work permitted selection of chromium-gold deposition parameters for hybrid microcircuit production."
"A new alumina substrate with an extremely smooth surface was developed. This new alumina substrate includes Cr203and MgO as the additives. Reliability data and characteristics of tantalum nitride or tantalum and tantalum oxide films on the new substrate were compared with those on the glazed alumina."
  "After a general discussion of pyroelectricity the figures of merit for pyroelectric materials are considered for different modes of vidicon operation. Techniques for material evaluation including the measurement of the pyroelectric coefficient and the thermal diffusivity are reviewed. Separate sections deal with the available pyroelectric crystalline, polymer, and ceramic materials and the possible ways to improve these materials are discussed. The most promising materials including those which have already been used in a pyroelectric vidicon are considered in greater detail. State-of-the-art pyroelectric vidicon data is presented. Pyroelectric materials arecompared based on the mode of operaton, figures of merit, and modulation transfer function. Finally, general areas of new materials research are outlined."
"Practical methods for making LSl yield projections are described in detail. The application of these methods to multilevel metal structures in particular is presented by means of example calculations of yield based on test pattern data. Using these methods the yield of any general multilevel metal interconnection pattern can be projected. It is shown that structural density, rather than chip area alone, should be the prime consideration in yield predictions."
"The introduction of impurity atoms into a surface by means of ion implantation is a well established technique in the semiconductor field. The main advantages of ion-implantation doping are its high controllability, uniformity, and reproducibility. Increasing applications, coupled with the development and availability of commercial equipment, has resulted in the use of the implantation technology in most major semiconductor processing facilities. Discussed in this review paper are: the ion-implantation process; standard ionimplantation equipment and operating parameters; and applications in device structures."
"Dc transport and optical measurements have been made on amorphous gallium arsenide and gallium-magnesium-arsenide alloy thin films vacuum deposited by coevaporation of the elements at a substrate temperature of 150°C. The transport properties have been measured on over 40 films over the temperature range 77\\leqT\\leq450 K and for dc fields up to 106V/cm. For dc fields less than 2 X 104V/cm conduction in the GaAs films is Ohmic and bulk-limited. The dc activation energy is 0.50 eV at 300 K which is about half the optical band gap. At high fields and low temperatures the dc current is proportional to exp(V1/2) and is in good agreement with Poole-Frenkel theory. The thermoelectric power is n-type and relatively temperature independent over the temperature range 300\\leqT\\leq420 K. The addition of magnesium, a p-type dopant in crystalline GaAs, to the amorphous GaAs thin films has no measured effect on the electrical properties of the films in the lowconcentration regime (less than 2 atomic % Mg). At higher magnesium concentrations there is a shift in the optical absorption edge to higher energy, a decreased dc conductivity and an increased activation energy, and a shift in the thermoelectric power toward p-type conduction."
"Results are discussed of an evaluation program for polymer materials considered for applications as protective coatings on hybrid microcircuits. The general organization of the program was in terms of seven potential mechanisms by which coatings could fail to provide protection. Emphasis is on describing those six tests which developed differences in material behavior considered to be significant in terms of the general application. Three involved electrical performance of the films alone or in conjunction with hybrid circuit elements, two dealt with mechanical properties, and one with chemically related behavior. It is suggested that the tests could be used in selecting promising candidates for particular applications which relate to the test conditions or in understanding some failure modes which could be expected in complex hybrid microcircuit assemblies. A brief review is given of those tests which were not considered to develop distinctions between materials. As a point of exception, the role of organic coatings on bare semiconductor device surfaces was not investigated."
"In recent years polycrystalline silicon deposited by chemical vapor deposition has become of importance in many semiconductor applications. The formation and properties of films deposited for different applications are reviewed in this paper, and the use of the films in semiconductor devices is discussed. The deposition temperature, gases, and impurities are found to have the major influence on the properties of the films. These deposition variables significantly affect the crystal"
"The blending of traditional transformer design practice with the phenomenal speed and logic adaptability of a modem computer has lead to a greater insight into transformer design procedures. This is due in part to the ability of the computer to execute many cumbersome and reiterative calculations in a logical and stepwise procedure leading to a design that satisfies ail input specifications. Several empirical relationships are used to provide a good starting point in a generalized design procedure as well as the means to handle subsequent changes. In addition, the interaction of temperature rise, voltage regulation, and losses upon the various parameters is analyzed and treated in a logical order to achieve the design objective. One of the innovative features of the computer program is the user's option to examine the nature of the variation of nine key parameters of interim designs that the computer prints out as it successfully approaches the final acceptable design. In this way, unusual input requirements may be discovered. If required, changes may be inserted into the input specification, and then the process can be continued until an acceptable design is reached. The scope of this computer program covers single-phase and three-phase power transformers from 1 to 5000 W and utilizes 13 different kinds of magnetic steel. In addition, there is no limitation as to the number of primary and secondary windings and taps on any winding. Concurrent to the transformer design program is a cost analysis program, which may be used independently if needed. The cost program develops material costs in detail and a labor analysis that sets forth a detailed list of labor operations necessary to construct the transformer being analyzed. Material costs are listed in the form of a parts list. Labor costs are summarized by listing all the required operations in units of time; likewise the setup is listed where it is required and tooling if it is necessary. Total labor cost is obtained by using an established average labor rate. The cost program is flexible in that it accommodates the most usual transformer structures, which include open as well as hermetically sealed units."
"Optimal process design can be considered as a multi~ stage decision making process in which the best method of component manufacture should be chosen for each stage of the process taking into account the interrelations between the process in the Complete system. The algorithm required and the associated flow charts necessary to implement the system are presented, using Bellman's optimum principle and graph theory."
"In the fabrication of printed circuit boards there are many machines and processes that independently Operate in series On the product, each operation with a tolerance determined by cost factors. The combining of these tolerances, some location tolerances such as X-Y tables, and some size tolerances such as pad exposures is accomplished by using basic probability techniques so that the process yield is found as a function of the decision variables (drill radius and pad radius). A formulation suitable for programming on a computer is developed in this paper so that the calculations can be done quickly."
"Back-plane, welded-wire technology is a packaging concept being used to replace conventional printed-circuit boards. Major reasons for pursuing welded-wire technology are 1) its greater density, which permits elimination of large multilayer printed-circuit boards, and 2) its adaptability to computer-aided design, which reduces drafting and manufacturing costs."
"It has become clear that the automation or labor saving of discrete manufacturing should be considered as the total integrated system. The concept of an integrated manufacturing system (IMS) is proposed. Cooperation among each equipment is the key to integrating the production system as the whole. System control Software plays an essential role in cooperation ired has two main functions, namely, branch and cooperation control, and schedule advance control. Compact IMS application to an induction motor-shaft machining shop has successfully been done to realize the usefulness of system control software."
"Advances made in the manufacturing technology of the woven plated-wire memory during the past ten years are presented. The operating principle and manufacturing processes are briefly described. Present status, especially the substrate preparation and electrochemical processing, is given in detail. Satisfactory yield and excellent stability have been achieved in the manufacture of plated- wires."
"Design modification is inevitable in the developing process of new digital systems and when it occurs it requires some rework on the produced digital system. Most modifications are concentrated on multilayer printed-circuit boards (PCB's). It is not only difficult to rework the multilayer PCB, but also very cumbersome to prepare engineering change documents. A technique for automatic preparation of engineering change data of the PCB is described."
"The roles and the effects of transition elements and other additives on the resistivity and the ratio of the resistivity rise of the semiconducting barium titanate ceramics are presented. The variety of the typical experimental data are illustrated to explain that the exact controlling up to ppm order of the small amount components including both impurities and additives as well as the controlling of the characteristics attributing to the powder, is very important technology for the industrial manufacturing of the high performance positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistor. The importance of the exact controlling of the whole firing program is also discussed, indicating the existence of particular temperature ranges at high temperature regions, both in the heating and cooling processes."
"The present situation in manufacturing calculators in Japan is described. Together with the rapid progress in integrated circuit and other components, calculators have gone through frequent model changes. The problems in manufacturing such products, our approach to the problems, and the examples of automation are pre- sented."
 "Working parts and cabinets made of plastics to be employed in a category such as electronic equipment have to be manufactured in great variety and in small quantities and thus have to have a molding process for mass production such as injection molding or the like, even in cases where the quantities to be manufactured are small, which has thus far constituted defects such that thick moldings cannot be properly manufactured and that their cost is rather high. In an effort to contrive a new molding process capable of obviating the preceding defects, a \"die-forging mold\" is examined. A description of this die-forging process is given with emphasis placed on 1) the process and materials employed, 2) basic study, 3) concrete illustrations, and 4) general consideration and prospective improve- ments."
"Manufacturing techniques of color TV receivers as well as other electronic equipment have made remarkable progress. Many approaches to automation have been tried in the past. The authors' activities concerning l) the development of modular chassis, 2) the automatic drafting system of printed circuit boards, 3) the automatic component inserting machine and checking facility used for printed circuit boards, 4) the automatic aligning and testing system applied to printed circuit boards, and 5) the automatic measuring system for color TV receivers are presented. Also, the concept of quality control of components and material is presented since quality control is essential for the attainment of reliability and automation. Through these activities and developments productivity has trebled during past several years, and the reliability of color TV receivers currently produced is over 20 000 hours mean time between failures (MTBF)."
"This item presents the entire issue as a single PDF file."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the guest editorial for this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Discusses research and development in the area of optoelectronics and microwave technology in Japan."
"Discusses research and development in the area of electromagnetics in Italy."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
"This item presents the entire issue as a single PDF file."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
  "Presents the guest editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents abstracts of selected Antennas and Propagation Society papers."
"This item presents the entire issue as a single PDF file."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
 "Presents abstracts of selected Antennas and Propagation Society papers."
"This item presents the entire issue as a single PDF file."
"Presents the guest editorial for this issue of the publication."
 "Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
  "Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
"Presents abstracts of selected Antennas and Propagation Society papers."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An electronically scanned cylindrical array having a minimum number of active devices has been designed. A saving of over 3 to 1 in diode elements as compared to conventional approaches has been achieved. In addition to providing instantaneous positioning to any azimuth direction, a constant azimuth beamwidth for an elevation fan beam has been realized. Extremely low azimuth sidelobes are obtained, and a straightforward synthesis procedure can provide elevation aperture designs to meet typical elevation pattern requirements. A modified Myer geodesic lens combined with a diode sequencing switch for coarse steering and a phased matrix feed for fine steering form the basis of the system. Sum and difference patterns show virtually no variation with scan or elevation angle and an omni-pattern is also available. Detailed pattern calculations as well as measured data on prototypes of key elements of the system are presented to verify the feasibility of the approach."
"The aperture design of conformal arrays is predicated on the knowledge of the element patterns and coupling coefficients in a mutually coupled environment. For equispaced identical slits on a perfectly conducting cylinder, a previous analysis has utilized the modal theory of periodic structures to simplify the calculations. Modal procedures are rather difficult to apply when the array surface has a more general, though rotationally symmetric and separable, shape; they become practically inapplicable when the surface is nonseparable. These difficulties may be overcome by recourse to the geometrical theory of diffraction and utilization of surface rays whose properties are determined from an appropriately defined local environment on the array surface. Depending on the problem under consideration, the local environment may involve either the unperforated array surface or a surface with periodic loading. It is shown how the surface ray technique can be applied to the analysis of mutual coupling in full ring arrays and finite arrays on a circular cylinder, and in nonperiodic or almost periodic arrays on surfaces of variable curvature. For finite arrays, a theoretical model leading to a representation of finiteness effects in terms of multiple scattering of surface rays of the periodic array structure between the edge discontinuities is confirmed by independently calculated numerical results. Although the demonstrations in this paper are confined to two-dimensional geometries, the procedure is applicable also to three-dimensional configurations."
"A propagation velocity of a whistler-mode signal in an unstable and abnormally dispersive plasma-beam system was investigated. Responses of the plasma in real time and space were computed by the inverse Fourier-Laplace transformation. The computed results of the propagation velocity are compared with various velocities analytically determined from the dispersion equation."
"Present requirements for wide-band spread-spectrum techniques for many applications offer attractive potential uses for circular symmetric arrays. Since rigorous analytical techniques are not available to investigate conical array characteristics, experimental techniques can be used to simulate scanning of the conical array. This paper describes techniques that give some insight into the behavior of conical arrays of dipoles. A projected distribution is used to simulate array properties such as beamwidth, sidelobe level, and polarization. Comparisons with a similar cylindrical array are made. Element patterns are examined to determine if behavior is similar to known behavior of element patterns for the cylindrical array. Finally, a conical sector experimental array is used to simulate selected \"scanned\" beam positions to determine array behavior, i.e., beamwidth, scan limits, polarization, and sidelobe level. Experimental and calculated array patterns, element patterns, and polarization data are given."
"An analytically simple and sufficiently accurate asymptotic solution for the eigenvalues of spherical surface waves in corrugated conical horns is described. An iterative procedure for numerical evaluation of the exact eigenvalues associated with the surface waves of the lowest order is presented here."
"TheXband transmission data of electromagnetic antenna window materials exposed to heat fluxes of magnitude 200 cal/cm2\\cdots to 400 cal/cm.2s are presented. The measurements were performed at the solar furnace of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Odeillo, France. The purpose of the tests was to analyze material performance under a very high pulsed heat flux radiant energy environment. The high-purity ceramic materials that are light in color showed very little RF attenuation during the test runs because of their excellent reflective properties to the focused radiant energy. All samples tested were exposed to the heat flux environment until the exposed surface underwent melting."
"A narrow-beam antenna using an artificial dielectric medium with effective permittivity less than unity has been investigated theoretically and experimentally. Complex propagation constant for a wave propagating along the structure is evaluated by solving the dispersion relation. The analysis indicates the presence of a leaky-wave mode. The radiation pattern is calculated by using Kirchhoff-Huygens integration method. Experimental results for an antenna of this type designed for operation atXband are reported and compared with theoretical calculations. Beam position varies from17\\degto47\\degwhen the frequency is changed from 8.6 to 11.5 GHz. Over this frequency range the half-power beamwidth varies from5.6\\degto4.8\\deg. An expression for the half-power beamwidth of a leakywave antenna of finite length has been derived and discussed in the Appendix."
"The impedance sheet concept used to predict the transmission and reflection properties of thin dielectrics is extended to determine the transmission and reflection properties of thin periodically varying dielectrics. For plane-wave incidence, the effect of the periodic interface is to generate a higher order modal distribution on both sides of the boundary. It is shown that situations exist where the higher order modes can be strongly excited, and in fact can carry more power than the dominant transmitted mode. The frequency response of the dielectric is obtained and shown to be quite different than the homogeneous thin dielectric except at lower frequencies."
"The principal objective of this investigation was to determine how to efficiently excite a small conical body over a 2:1 frequency bandwidth such that a prescribed minimun value of gain is exceeded in a60\\degconical sector about the forward axis of the cone. To achieve the necessary bandwidth, two approaches have been considered. First, an electrically small moderately efficient tunable antenna can be employed to excite currents on the cone. Second, one can employ a wide-band antenna having at least a 2:1 bandwidth. This latter approach was investigated theoretically and found to be feasible but experimental confirmation was not attempted in deference to the first approach that has the potential of greater gain (efficiency). To demonstrate the validity of the first approach a four element conical array was constructed and is described in this paper. Experimental results agreed well with theoretical expectations."
"High-frequency responses of circular ring antennas and scattering structures are presented. The responses were calculated numerically by a time-domain moment method. The low-frequency inductance of a circular ring can be found by using the steady-state current resulting from an applied voltage with a nonzero dc level"
"A technique, whereby the radiation patterns of large size reflector antennas can be approximated by computers using a moment method without excessive computer time or memory, is described. Computational time increases only linearly with antenna size. There is no limit on the minimum reflector size (a single wire reflector can be analyzed). An example is discussed showing the radiation patterns of a truncated parabolic reflector excited by feeds displaced from the parabola focus."
"A simple analytic formula for the radiation of the angular harmonics excited by a large cylindrical array is derived. The dependence of the phase on elevation angle and cylinder diameter relative to a wavelength is shown and compared to an exact solution. The difference between a continuous distribution and discrete array is presented; and the angular phase perturbations produced by the discrete array are also derived. The results can be used for computing the radiation field produced by multiple harmonic excitation of the array, and indicate the effect of the element pattern, number of elements, and spacing."
"The analysis of the element pattern in an array of waveguide elements on a cone is approached by systematically exploiting the geometrical symmetry of the structure. The method consists of decomposing the arbitrary array excitation into fundamental excitations (eigenexcitations) for which the solution of the electromagnetic problem is simpler than in the general case. Following Bailin and Silver, the fields external to the cone are represented as a superposition of modes TE and TM to the radial direction. For each eigenexcitation the fields in the waveguide elements are represented as a superposition of normal waveguide modes. The enforcement of the continuity of the electromagnetic fields at the conical interface provides complete information about the radiation from the elements and the reflection coefficients of the modes in the waveguide. The array element pattern is obtained by the superposition, with suitable weights, of the patterns of the eigenexcitations. The communication presents the computational procedures followed to evaluate with high speed and precision the roots of the Legendre functions necessary to represent the fields external to the conical structure. Numerical results for the realized element patterns of a particular conical array are presented in the final section."
"The characteristics of an 8-element linear array located along the generatrix of a cone with a20\\degfull cone angle is described. The array is scanned from broadside to a direction parallel to the cone axis. Radiation patterns and admittances are measured over wide scan angles. Theoretical calculations are performed for a similar array located on an infinite groundplane. The agreement between theory and measurement is very good."
"A new class of antennas using microstrips to form the feed networks and radiators is presented in this communication. These antennas have four distinct advantages: 1) cost, 2) performance, 3) ease of installation, and 4) the low profile conformal design. The application of these antennas is limited to small bandwidths. Phased arrays using these techniques are also discussed."
"A new feed concept is described which greatly simplifies the problem of commutating the RF distribution system of a cylindrical phased array. The feed consists of a circular parallel-plate radial transmission line with a central set of probes and a ring of peripheral probes. The array of probes in the center can be phased to produce an amplitude distribution in the parallel-plate line in any given direction. Proper setting of only two phase shifters connected to the central probes can cause any sector of the peripheral probes to be excited with the proper amplitude distribution necessary to produce a directive pattern with low sidelobes as well as a monopulse difference pattern when the peripheral probes are connected, through collimating phase shifters, to the active radiating elements of a cylindrical array. The cylindrical array can be scanned through360\\degin fine increments by continued indexing of the amplitude distribution generated by the central probes. ExperimentalLband hardware, built to prove the feed technique, is described. Nine central probes in a 0.25-inch thick 21-in diameter model produced a cardioid distribution and an orthogonal figure-eight distribution which could be commutated together by adjustment of two phase shifters. Measured insertion loss between the central probes and 48 peripheral probes showed only 0.1-dB loss over a 6-percent band. Coupling measurements between the three available central terminals indicated isolation between the various ports of 23-35 dB. The minimum insertion loss and the corresponding transmission phase between the central feed and the peripheral probes was shown to be independent of the setting of the two control phase shifters which were set to have conjugate phase shift."
"A conformal array on a surface of small curvature can be approximated by a number of planar arrays, several of which may be excited simultaneously so as to achieve a performance similar to that of a conformal array. Since the main beam of a planar array can be steered to any direction in the visible Space, several arrays, each oriented in a different direction, can be steered cooperatively to form a single beam in a desired direction. A general formulation of the radiation field of such an array of arrays is developed with the aid of vector recomposition formulas between two orthogonal co-ordinate systems. This formulation does not involve the integration of the current source but is solely dependent upon the knowledge of the far-field expressions of elementary radiators. Using this formulation, it can be shown that within each array, the conventional row and column phase setting can be used, although each array requires an additional phase shift to compensate for the phase difference caused by its position on the curved surface. As examples, the radiation patterns and polarizations of multiple arrays of short dipoles are studied using the present formulation. A comparison of the multiple planar arrays with the conventional conformal array is also presented."
"For a conformal array of nonparallel radiators the classical array theory fails to offer a convenient way for calculating the array pattern and its cross-polarized counterpart. This study shows that under a wide range of conditions, these patterns can be simply obtained from the array space factor by partial differentiation. The scalar space factor of an array, therefore, can be considered as a generating function for the array patterns for both the principal and the cross-polarized fields in a vector form. To illustrate the theory, arc arrays of uniformly spaced dipoles and slots are treated. The analysis is extended to the case of conical arrays."
"The effect of scattering from a sharp tip on mutual admittance is investigated for pairs of circumferential and radial slots on a semi-infinite metallic cone. Mutual coupling measurements as a function frequency and angular separation are presented and compared with numerical calculations. The base of the conical model used in the experimental study was terminated in a spherical cap to minimize scattering from the finite length of the apparatus. The circumferential slot results illustrate interference effects between the direct coupling from slot-to-slot via the geodesic path over the conical surface and the tip back scattering. For the radial slot configuration, the results exhibit negligible tip scattering effects. The analysis utilizes a computer calculation of mutual coupling between circumferential and axial slots on an equivalent cylinder to predict the direct coupling contribution and utilizes the tip diffraction coefficient for calculating the component scattered by the apex. The tip diffraction coefficient is derived from an asymptotic expression for the tip-scattered component of the surface magnetic field excited on a semi-infinite conical surface."
"A conformal array is presented that provides, by means of single-pole multithrow switches and microstrip power dividers, either an omnidirectional or an electronically despun directional radiation pattern. Switching techniques for scanning the directional pattern of circular arrays are discussed. The design parameters and measured results of an experimental 64-element array flush-mounted on a cylindrical spacecraft, are presented. Over the 40-percent bandwidth atSband, measured results show close agreement with theory."
"A new cylindrical array has been developed for the TACAN ground antenna application. The technical requirements are unique since the circumferential radiation pattern is quasi-omnidirectional with multiple lobes and must be rotated at a precise rate. This is accomplished by electronically modulating the azimuth aperture distribution. Thus the antenna is a system including a specialized cylindrical array, a modulating RF feed network, and the associated electronic generator providing the required modulation and reference signals. Theoretical and practical design considerations are presented using a mathematical model of the antenna. This model describes the characteristic behavior and actual performance of the cylindrical array. The antenna's physical characteristics and design features are described, and measured array performance is presented in detail and compared to the system requirements. Operational performance data accumulated during actual flight test evaluation is presented briefly."
"The analysis of infinite arrays of waveguide apertures on cylinders covered by a dielectric is approached by enforcing the continuity of the EM fields at the air-dielectric and at the dielectric-cylinder interfaces. The continuity of the EM fields at the first interface is enforced by representing the fields in the air and in the dielectric by an orthonormal set of modes LSE and LSM with respect to the radial direction. The matching of the fields at the second interface is performed by resorting to the \"eigenexcitation\" method [1]. The fields external to the cylinder are represented by a set of space harmonics matching the symmetry of the excitation of the array and the fields in the waveguides by a superposition of normal waveguide modes. The continuity of the fields is approximately enforced by using Galerkin's method. The rigorous analysis of these structures leads to rather involved expressions for the element driving point admittance and for the far fields. An approximate analysis is introduced to simplify the design of these structures for cylinders of large radius. Numerical examples illustrate the good approximation given by the simplified analysis. Numerical results are presented for the case of an array on a cylinder with radius approximately100\\lambda. The array element pattern shows the presence of resonance dips much more pronounced than the notches due to grating lobe phenomena."
"In the present work, the finite planar waveguide array problem is formulated as a matrix equation. It is shown that entries of the matrix are independent of the scan angles, and it is necessary to compute and invert the matrix only once in order to obtain information on the array Scanning operation at any angular position. It is also shown that the use of certain symmetry relations greatly reduces the computation time of the matrix entries. Finally, a numerical example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the matrix formulation in treating the finite array problem."
"We show thatnantennas may be used asmsuccessive linear arrays to give, without redundancy, all the spacings from 1 throughm n(n - 1)/2, form = 4andn = 3, m = 5, andn = 3, andm = 4andn = 4. For every case, solutions are given requiring the minimum number of stations."
"Many antenna array performance indices can be expressed as ratios of Hermitian quadratic forms in the element excitation coefficients. A method is presented for the optimization of such performance indices with respect to the excitation coefficients and subject to multiple nonzero constraints on the array power pattern. The optimum excitation vector is shown to satisfy a characteristic equation with quadratic constraints. The solution of this equation is reduced to another quadratic form optimization problem for which solution techniques exist. Intended for applications involving power pattern constraints, the method of this communication avoids the penalty generally incurred by the alternative approach of arbitrarily specifying radiation pattern phase and using existing results on performance index optimization with radiation pattern constraints. As an example the method is applied to the problem of reducing the sidelobes of a circular array under a constraint on the main-lobe beamwidth of the power pattern."
"With sinusoidal bases and Galerkin's method, the tumble-average radar backscatter is computed for parallel wires, crossed wires, a planar tripod, and a regular quadripod. This communicalion presents calculated and measured results. One of the configurations, the quadripod, demonstrates attractive tumble-average properties for use as a chaff element."
"Recently it has been shown that a plane wave reflected from an active surface may be amplified [1]. The active surface was theoretically assumed to be a corrugated planar structure with slots properly loaded with negative conductance material (e.g., Gunn, tunnel, or IMPATT diodes). If the corrugations are sufficiently close, such surfaces, whether active or passive, can be modeled in terms of an equivalent surface impedance. From the boundary-value point of view this makes the problem amenable to easy computation. In this communication, an example is discussed where a plane electromagnetic wave scatters from an elliptic cylinder loaded by a continuously variable surface impedance. For negative surface conductance, significant amplification of the backscattered field is obtained. Results are also shown for passive surface impedances."
"It is shown that a specular-point scattering model adequately predicts the relation between the average quasi-specular microwave scattering cross section of the sea and the mean wind speed. The mean-square sea slope required in this model varies with both the upper and lower ends of the waveheight spectrum, which in themselves are functions of wind speed. Optical measurements of slopes confirm this physical relationship. Finally, the resultant scattering cross section predicted by the slope-dependent specular-point model is compared with a set of recent measurements, lending credence to the model and interpretation suggested here."
"Pitch and roll plane radiation patterns computed by use of an integral equation formulation are presented for a space shuttle annular slot communications antenna. The excellent agreement between computed patterns and experimental patterns obtained from 1/35 scale models supports the use of this method as a design tool for similar spacecraft/aircraft antenna applications."
"An approximation technique for analyzing nonsymmetrically distorted umbrella reflectors is presented which offers savings in computer time by a factor of twice the number of gores. The surface distortions are described by incorporating an additional path-length phase factor into the illumination function. By expanding this phase factor in a finite Fourier series and neglecting Bessel functions of large order and small argument, the field integral reduces to a compact expression integrated over only half of a gore."
"The subsurface electromagnetic fields of a line source with a delta function current are considered. All displacement currents are neglected. The time-dependent electric and magnetic fields at the buried observer are illustrated. The resulting waveforms all have a leading spike followed by a slowly decaying tail of opposite polarity. The results have possible application to downlink signaling in mine rescue work."
"The author describes a computer system to map or draw graphs, on a line printer, of the responses of arrays as a function of incident angle. He discusses digital storage requirements"
"An approach to the indirect probing of inhomogeneous plane stratified plasmas is presented which, within numerical limitations, yields unique electron density profiles. It has been shown that the density profile and the reflected wave generated by a\\delta- function incident electric field are uniquely related by a Fredholm integral equation. The integral equation is solved numerically by transforming it to a matrix equation. The values of the reflected wave at equally spaced time points determine the matrix elements. As the interval between the time points is decreased, the electron density obtained from the inversion of the matrix equation approaches the actual density. To illustrate the method, profiles are obtained for some plasmas whose density is constant or a decreasing function."
"An explicit expression is derived for the surface impedance of a half-space composed of two layers. The upper layer is assumed to be arbitrarily inhomogeneous. The bottom layer, which is of infinite thickness, is assumed to be homogeneous. The expression contains the state-transition matrix elements associated with the upper layer. This matrix is determined numerically and analytically for rapidly and slowly varying media, respectively. The formulation is confined to vertical polarization. The method is applied to reflection from a sinusoidal edge of an opaque sporadicElayer in the ionosphere. The results assist some previous calculations."
"This paper describes the principles of operation of the Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN) antenna system and compares the performance characteristics of the mechanically rotated with a proposed electronically scanned system. An analysis is provided of the various factors involved in the design of an electronically scanned TACAN antenna. The discussions in this paper serve as an introduction to a paper in this issue which describes the design, fabrication, test, and evaluation of one example of an experimental model of an electronically scanned cylindrical TACAN antenna array [1]."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The transient waveforms radiated by step voltage or Gaussian pulse excited resistively loaded linear antennas are investigated by numerical means. Current distributions on the harmonically excited antenna are obtained as functions of frequency and for different values of the loading. The transfer functions of the antenna and the spectral densities of the radiated waveforms are obtained as functions of frequency and the loading and for different directions in space. The time dependent radiated waveforms produced by the antenna are obtained by using the fast Fourier inversion technique. The effects of the various antenna parameters on the radiated waveforms are also investigated. Some of the results are compared with available approximate analytical results."
 "The Green's function technique is employed to investigate the influence of the boundary condition perturbations in a number of wave propagation problems. The method permits treatment of multiple scattering on random irregularities of a boundary surface which is of particular importance for waveguide applications. For an average Green's function the Dyson type equation has been obtained whose solution represents the coherent part of a point source field in a rough waveguide. The eigenfunction spectrum has also been calculated for such waveguides. By means of mutual wave transformation due to the scattering, the waveguide modes acquire additional (lossless) damping and altered phase velocities. Detailed calculations have been carried through for plane acoustical waveguides with statistically rough walls under the Dirichlet and Neumann conditions. The average field's damping has also been considered for some cases of more complex geometry. In the electromagnetic case the electrical and magnetic solutions are similarly influenced by the wall roughness. Owing to the scattering they acquire longitudinal components ofEorHthus becoming guasi-electrical or quasi-magnetic. For these normal waves the damping coefficients (attenuation rates) have been derived. A particular attention is paid to cutoff frequencies in the presence of effective wave conversion to the resonant mode."
"Accurate absolute gain measurements on a typical 10-cm bandE-plane sectoral horn are described which demonstrate the conventional gain expression underestimates by 20 percent or more. More refined Kirchhoff expressions give little improvement. A new gain formula, incorporating the exact on-axisTE_{10}mode field of an open-ended parallel-plate waveguide and yielding much closer agreement with experiment, is proposed."
"Microwave propagation over the sea within the horizon may be treated by ray tracing. Because of the maritime evaporation duct at sea, the receiving field may vanish at a certain antenna height. With increasing duct thickness, this special receiving point is shifted upwards. Vertical polarization puts this point on a lower level than horizontal polarization. Moreover, with increasing duct thickness it is shifted upwards more slowly for vertical polarization than for horizontal polarization. The resultant phase of the receiving field depends on the magnitude of the refractivity on a fixed but arbitrary reference level and on the thickness of the evaporation duct. Between the phase and the refractivity there exists a linear relation. As a function of duct thickness, however, the phase reveals a discontinuity amounting to integer multiples of2\\pi. In geodesy, where a modified kind of phase measurement is used for telemetry (Tellurometer), the evaporation duct may cause considerable errors."
"The feasibility of obtaining arbitrary polarization in both one- and two-dimensional arrays of slots in dual mode bifurcated Waveguides has been demonstrated. The radiating element consists of a pair of crossed slots in the sidewall of a bifurcated rectangular waveguide that couple to even and odd waveguide modes. One linear polarization is excited by the even or \"sum\" mode and the orthogonal linear polarization is excited by the odd or \"difference\" mode. By superposing the sum and difference modes in the proper amplitude and phase, any arbitrary polarization can be realized. A two-dimensional array consisting of eight waveguide linear arrays, ferrite phase shifters for scanning in the plane normal to the linear arrays, and a feed network for power distribution and polarization control was constructed. Good radiation performance for various polarizations was obtained. In the case of linear polarization, the cross polarization component was on the order of -25 dB and in the case of circular polarization, the axial ratio was on the order of 1 dB. The polarization was controlled with a ferrite phase shifter. Close-in sidelobes of better than 20 dB were obtained for all polarizations. The preceding performance characteristics were obtained over a scan range of\\pm20\\degand over a 6 percent frequency band."
"An approximate expression is derived for a shift of a main-beam direction due to its element pattern in a uniformly illuminated, scanning planar array for asin^{p} \\theta \\cdotp sin^{q} \\phielement pattern. Furthermore, the integral of the radiation power pattern of the array is approximately evaluated, and discussions are given about the effect of the element pattern on the scanned directivity of the array. Numerical results are presented for several cases."
"Equations are presented for the calculation of the interelement mutual coupling in a finite size planar array of waveguide-fed apertures in an infinite flat conductor. The general mutual admittance expression is evaluated for circular apertures and the mutual coupling calculations are verified experimentally for twoTE_{11}mode excited apertures. Qualitative agreement between calculations for a 183 element array and an infinite array establishes the validity of the finite array theoretical model."
"The characteristics of the quadrifilar helix antenna [1] and [2], a broad-band high-gain device, are described in detail. Experimental data on beam patterns, impedance, and axial ratio are given for both the circularly polarized quadrifilar helix antenna (QHA) and the linearly polarized counterwound quadrifilar helix antenna (CQHA). Bandwidths in excess of 5:1 are obtained. The low frequency behavior is discussed. Computation of the QHA characteristics by moment methods [3] is described and computed data on beam patterns and current distributions are given."
"Several fundamental element pattern-active reflection coefficient interrelationships in uniform phased arrays are summarized, extended, and integrated. For central elements of sufficiently large arrays the results provide the basis for attractive measurement schemes of array parameters."
"Corrugated horns involve a junction between the corrugated surface and a conducting groundplane. Proper horn design requires an understanding of the electromagnetic properties of the corrugated surface and this junction. An integral equation solution has been used to study the influence of corrugation density and tooth thickness on the power loss, surface current, and the scattering from a groundplane-corrugated surface junction."
"An analytical stochastic model to predict relevant statistical scattering features of electromagnetic waves propagating within vegetated environments is presented. The propagation phenomena are described by formulating the scattering associated with random permittivity fluctuations superimposed on a lossy deterministic background slab. The distorted wave Born approximation is employed to determine the backscattered power, and its temporal spectrum."
"A multipole-expansion technique is developed which permits the two-dimensional scattering integral for reflector antennas to be replaced by a finite sum of simple algebraic terms. The series, which accurately represents the radiated field over the main antenna beam and first few sidelobes, converges rapidly because the source dimensions are small. It is demonstrated that the reciprocity theorem is satisfied by the boresight physical-optics field of a paraboloid illuminated by a generalized linear electric current feed centered at the focus."
"The refractive properties of inhomogeneous fibers are examined with emphasis being placed on the limiting situation where the index of refraction possesses poles or zeros. If, e.g., the index of refraction isn(\\xi) = \\xi^{m}, \\xi = r/a, whereais the radius of the fiber andman arbitrary constant, it is found that energy integrability is satisfied ifm > -1. Whenm \\leq -1energy infinities occur. The ray behavior of such media is examined in terms of geometrical optics, and corrections to geometrical optics are obtained by an asymptotic analysis of the exact solution. Form > 0, the lens is of the diverging type, and when the angle of incidence is\\alpha = 0, geometrical optics predicts that rays \"reflect\" at various angles from the origin (depending on the value ofm). Whenm < 0, rays \"wrap\" around the origin several times with a zero radius of curvature before they leave the lens (\\alpha = 0). For-1 < m < -\\frac{1}{2}, it is found that when\\alpha= [(2m + 1)/2m] \\picaustics occur (\\alpha = 0, \\pi/2excluded). Pictorial diagrams show the behavior of these caustics and the correction coefficients to geometrical optics are obtained."
"The effect of soil moisture on the radar backscattering coefficient was investigated by measuring the 4-8 GHz spectral response from two types of bare-soil fields: slightly rough and very rough, in terms of the wavelength. An FM-CW radar system mounted atop a 75-ft truck-mounted boom was used to measure the return at 10 frequency points across the 4-8 GHz band, at 8 different look angles (0\\degthrough70\\deg), and for all polarization combinations. A total of 17 sets of data were collected covering the range 4-36 percent soil moisture content by weight. The results indicate that the radar response to soil moisture content is highly dependent on the surface roughness, microwave frequency, and look angle. The response seems to be linear, however, over the range 15-30 percent moisture content for all angles, frequencies, polarizations, and surface conditions."
"During incoherent scattering of a radar pulse from an extended volume region it is appropriate, because of transit-time considerations, to work with a virtual pulse which differs from the true (transmitted) pulse both in size and shape. We have determined the coordinate transformation leading to the virtual pulse for the general far-field case. The Gaussian spheroidal incident pulse is then considered as a prototype, and implications on measurements are discussed."
"The rain range experiment was conducted to test the adequacy of the assumptions usually made in the analysis of attenuation or phase shift due to rain: spherical drop shape, Mie scattering for a single drop, and single scattering theory for the coherent summation of the effects of each drop. A sprayer system was built that provided a stable drop size distribution that was measured and used for the estimation of the attenuation and phase shift on a line-of-sight measurement path through the spray. Measurements of attenuation and phase shift were made using vertical and horizontal polarization at 7.9 GHz and vertical polarization at 33.9 GHz. The results of the experiment show agreement between measurements and the theoretical model. The 7.9 GHz data also showed the attenuation and phase shift for horizontal polarization to be higher than for vertical polarization."
"The correlation function of a point-source field is shown to be governed by the Bethe-Salpeter equation which reduces to the transfer equations for the eigenwave intensities. Because of the boundary irregularities the initial energy distribution among the modes undergoes substantial changes at great distances. In the case of a multimode waveguide the radiation transfer equation takes the form of the diffusion equation in the mode number domain, with the role of time played by the distance along the waveguide. In the framework of the multiple scattering theory developed, the propagation of a time-dependent quasi-monochromatic signal is also discussed. The wall roughness manifests in distortions of the signal shape. In a number of cases explicit expressions have been obtained for the pulse shape as a function of time and coordinates. Typical distances are estimated at which an amplitude modulation is effectively \"washed away\" by the influence of the multiple scattering."
"In this paper theoretical expressions are derived for the time-lag covariance functions and frequency spectra of a wave propagating in a turbulent medium where either the source, receiver, or both are moving. The expressions are generalizations of the results of other workers. A Gaussian beam wave was considered but results are presented for plane and spherical waves also. It is also noted that a commonly used approximation may not be valid when focused beams are discussed."
"An experimental investigation of bistatic scatter from rain was conducted using a 143 km scatter path at frequencies of 4.5 and 7.7 GHz. The ratio of transmitted to received power (transmission loss) was measured for scattering angles ranging from6\\degto130\\deg. Simultaneous weather radar observations were made at a frequency of 1.3 GHz. Transmission loss estimates for the bistatic scatter path were computed using the weather radar data, the bistatic radar equation, and a model for the scattering cross section per unit volume of rain based upon Rayleigh scattering by an ensemble of water spheres. The measured and estimated transmission loss values were compared to test the use of the scattering model for the estimation of interference. The averaged ratio of measured-to-calculated transmission loss for the 4.5 GHz data is 1.2\\pm 0.4dB. The averaged ratio for the 7.7 GHz data is -1.6\\pm 0.5dB. Both these values are within the combined calibration uncertainties of each measurement system. The results show that the use of the simplified Rayleigh scattering cross section model for an ensemble of water spheres adequately describes bistatic scatter for a wide range of scattering angles and frequencies below 7.7 GHz for the hydrometeor types (rain, snow, and mixed rain and snow) encountered in New England."
"It is pointed out that Baños's formulas of the contribution from the pole in the evaluation of the Hertz vector for the radiation field of a dipole cannot be applied even when both the dipole and the observing point are in the lossy half-space due to the approximate method for the integration."
"This paper presents the design of aKband frequency scanned array in an RG 96/U waveguide. The radiating elements consist of slots machined in the narrow wall of the guide. experiment-resluts of the measured slot conductances for the antenna elements and the feed system are given for slot spacings of 0.25 inches and various slot orientations and depths. Theoretical optimum efficiencies for uniform, Chebyshev, and Taylor distributions are also presented. Finally, the experimental results for a 400-element planar array are given."
"The results of an experimental investigation into the radiation properties of circular waveguide excited dielectric sphere antennas are reported. The input waveguide had a plain end without a flange or ground plane. The input voltage standing-wave ratio varied from about 1.1 to 2.5 for the sphere sizes used but can usually be reduced to about 1.25 over the 8-12 GHz band by separating the sphere from the waveguide. Separation increases the on-axis gain by 1-3 dB and produces nearly equal beamwidths in bothE- andH- planes. Phase front measurements located a fixed phase center near the end of the waveguide."
"The concept of a negative radius of curvature is used to show that the Fock currents can be extended to cover the case of a concave parabola, as well as a convex one. A simple analytic continuation of a parameter in the expression for the Fock currents leads to a residue series representation. The residue series is compared with an integral equation solution for a specific parabola."
"The new class of reflector antennas that is described in this communication yields a higher directive gain than obtained with conventional reflector antennas of the same area. An antenna of this new design consists of a reflecting surface, a peripheral rim, and a feed system in the reflector center. It is analyzed as a combination of two radiating sources whose radiation maxima and mutual phase relations can be simply adjusted for highest directive gain in the axis normal to the reflector. The marked directive gain increase is explained on the basis that there is a virtual extension of the radiating aperture beyond the physical dimensions of the reflector. The two antenna models that are described develop directive gains of almost 3 dB above those of conventional reflector antennas of equal size and comparable pattern characteristics. Optimized for a given frequency, the new design covers a pattern bandwidth of approximately 4:1."
"This paper investigates the radiation efficiency of anXband waveguide array as the number of elements is varied for Uniform, Chebyshev, and Taylor aperture distributions. The radiating elements consist of edge slots machined in the narrow wall of an RG/52U waveguide terminated with a matched load. Efficiency calculations are made for a frequency of 9 GHz and a slot spacing of 0.8 in. Finally, theoretical and experimental radiation efficiencies are compared for a 20-dB Chebyshev array operating at maximum efficiency."
"Using frequency domain integral equation solutions for the current flowing on a thin-wire antenna or scatterer located over a perfectly conducting ground plane, the time domain response of the current is determined by Fourier inversion. Typical results are presented along with summary curves depicting the shift in fundamental frequency of oscillation and the change in damping constants for the fundamental mode as the wire position is varied."
"Two different definitions of coupling between antennas are given, for emission or reception. Using these definitions, computations have been made for two passive dipoles and two active dipoles (passive dipoles fed with a transistor). It appears that reduction of coupling is obtained only with an emissive active dipole array."
"A theory on the phenomena of resonances and instabilities of passively and actively loaded antennas is presented. The general conditions for resonances for loaded radiating and receiving antennas are given. The conditions and types of instabilities encountered by actively loaded radiating and receiving antennas are analyzed. The instability of a conventional receiving antenna is discussed."
"The three-term theory is applied to study the circuit and field properties of linear and crossed-dipole arrays of the backfire type. The arrays are composed of both driven and parasitic elements. It is found that with proper spacings and lengths of the elements, both broadside and endfire patterns can be obtained by changes in the relative phases of only a fraction of the total number of elements."
"A 21-km horizontal very-low frequency (VLF) antenna has been constructed at Siple Station, Antarctica. This antenna is to be used to inject VLF waves into the magnetosphere in order to perform wave particle interaction experiments. In the present paper, the properties of this antenna are analyzed and its impedance and efficiency calculated. The electrical properties of the ice layer beneath the antenna are modeled. The ice is represented by several layers, each with a different dielectric constant and conductivity. A variational method due to Galejs [2] for an antenna in a stratified dielectric is used. In this method the cylindrical antenna is replaced by an equivalent strip antenna so that the entire geometry is planar. The efficiency is calculated as a function of frequency for different lengths of the antenna. It is found that the antenna is most efficient near its antiresonant frequency. The optimum length for efficient operation at a given frequency is discussed. It is shown that the antenna has an efficiency greater than 2 percent over more than a 2 to 1 frequency range. Some advantages of the Siple antenna, as compared with other horizontal and vertical antennas, are pointed out."
"Experimental evidence of increased bandwidth and preservation of the radiation pattern with variation in frequency is given for an active two-element receiving array. It is shown that use of appropriate transistors as the active devices is essential for obtaining the benefits of suppressed mutual coupling effects combined with high electronic gain. The active receiving array then exhibits a reduced frequency dependence similar to the active transmitting array."
"A procedure for calculating the natural frequencies and the current distribution of the natural modes of a perfectly conducting body of revolution is presented. The analysis is based on the magnetic-field integral equation simplified to account for rotational symmetry. A technique is developed for the numerical evaluation of the natural frequencies and modes of a perfectly conducting rotationally symmetric body. The technique is used in a numerical sample calculation of natural frequencies and modes of a prolate spheroid. The general method of treating transient electromagnetic scattering problems developed previously is specialized to perfectly conducting bodies of revolution. In particular, scattering of a step-function plane wave from a prolate spheroid is treated numerically. The time response of the induced surface current is constructed from the natural modes in the same way as in network theory. The convergence of the solution, as the number of modes is increased, is also considered."
"The maximum backscattering cross section of an equispaced linear array connected to a reactive network and consisting of isotropic radiators is calculated forn = 2, 3, and 4 elements as a function of the incident angle and of the distance between the elements. On the basis of the results obtained, some conjectures pertaining to the generaln-element array are presented."
"Calculations of the backscattering width of various metal cylinders enclosed in wire cages are compared with measured values obtained from a standing-wave-ratio method. The calculations are done by assuming that the wire cage simulates a thin continuous current sheath with suitable boundary conditions. The special cases of bare cylinders and of empty wire cages are also treated. The results show that the backscattering width is a sensitive function of the cage geometry."
"A technique is developed for direct determination of the plane wave reflection properties of plane layered media. The approach is applicable for media containing a high-index absorber layer. A circular waveguide aperture is used to measure the near field scattering from the external medium. The analytical development results in a set of Smith chart contours from which the reflection properties of the medium can be determined from the measured waveguide reflection coefficient. The approach is demonstrated with measurements of a ferrite absorber panel."
"A theoretical formulation, in terms of combined magnetic and electric field integral equations, is presented for the class of electromagnetic problems in which one or more wire antennas are connected to a conducting body of arbitrary shape. The formulation is suitable for numerical computation provided that the overall dimensions of the structure are not large compared to the wavelength. A computer program is described, and test runs on various configurations involving a cylindrical body with one or more straight wires are presented. The results obtained agree well with experimental data."
 "A method is given for synthesizing a desired scattering pattern by reactively loading anN-port scatterer. The procedure involves specifying the pattern in magnitude only, without restriction of its phase. The real port current (or voltage) which gives a least-squares approximation to a desired radiation field magnitude is found and then resonated by reactive loads at the ports. If a sufficient number of ports is chosen, and if the body is of electrically small or of intermediate size, then the scattered field pattern is approximately the same as the synthesized radiation pattern. Numerical examples of the method are given for a body consisting of a wire triangle with two cross wires, on which four ports are defined."
"It is demonstrated theoretically and experimentally that a log-periodic monopole array with a meander-line feeder may be expected to exhibit high values of voltage standing-wave ratio. Improved match can be obtained by allowing the impedance of the feeder to go to a higher value near each monopole. A good match to50 \\Omegais achieved in this way."
    "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The effect of source angular size on the measurement of antenna half-power beamwidth using extraterrestrial sources is analyzed for a circularly symmetric Gaussian antenna pattern and a circular uniform disk source. Results are presented in the form of universal curves which can be used conveniently in practical applications. The curves may be also used in the determination of the angular size of the disk source."
 "Most Cassegrainian and Gregorian antennas have axial symmetry, in which case the subreflector and associated supporting members partially block the aperture. Consequently, relatively high sidelobes appear in the radiation pattern, and a reflection is produced in the transmission line of the feed. These undesirable effects can be largely eliminated using asymmetrical configurations. Here we compare axisymmetrical and offset near-field Cassegrainians and Gregorians; expressions for the reflection coefficient and increase in sidelobe level are given. The offset designs are found to have superior performance in both respects."
"Hybrid modes in a square corrugated waveguide are investigated, and a technique of combining several modes for pattern shaping is described. The mode amplitudes are calculated from a known throat excitation and used to compute radiation patterns. One horn was designed, constructed, and tested. The theoretical patterns were in good agreement with experimental data."
"An equivalent circuit representation of quadruple ridge-loaded waveguide arrays is presented which is useful for synthesis and optimization of array performance. The validity of this technique has been verified by simulator measurement."
"The radiation pattern of a zoned waveguide lens is calculated by considering a continuous field distribution over the lens aperture with ring blockages at the steps. The expression for the blockage which is constructed from the results of the measurement of a simplified model is presented here."
"The axis boundary condition scalar potential integral equation is used to study the hemispherically capped thick cylindrical monopole with a conical feed section. The monopole is perfectly conducting and is fed by a coaxial line whose outer radius is connected to an infinite perfectly conducting ground plane. One approximation in the equation is that the field across the coaxial aperture is approximated by the fundamental TEM coaxial line mode. The integral equation is numerically solved by the moments method using entire domain basis functions with delta weights. A simple way for checking the convergence of the solution that needs no new integrations is given. The theoretical current distributions, input admittances, and radiation patterns are given for a thin, moderately thick, and thick monopole with and without a conical feed section. This feeding section simplifies the matching of the antenna to conventional signal generators and improves the high frequency characteristics of the monopole."
"For fixed aperture size, the aperture taper which maximizes the power radiated into a specified interval (-\\theta_{0},\\theta_{0}) is determined, and the properties of the corresponding pattern are compared to the ideal space pattern introduced by Taylor [1]. We consider the case of the linear aperture with no supergaining, although the results are directly applicable to the principal plane patterns of the two dimensional rectangular aperture. It is shown that for an aperture of widtha, as (\\pi\\alpha/\\lambda)sin \\theta_{0}increases, one can not only maximize the power radiated into (-\\theta_{0},\\theta_{0}), but also constrain the sidelobe ratio outside (-\\theta_{0},\\theta_{0}) below a specified value."
"This paper describes a new technique for producing an overlapped subarray pattern by higher order mode coupling between nearest neighbor phased array elements. Theoretical and experimental results are compared and practical circuits are described for one plane of scan."
"The purpose of this paper is to report an accurate boresight analysis for practical three-dimensional antenna-radome systems. The analysis of practical three-dimensional antenna-radome combinations has been impractical for antenna aperture areas greater than about75\\lambda^{2}. The principal difficulty encountered is the excessive computation time required for the large number of antenna near field calculations. The key feature of the approach taken by the authors is the use of the plane wave spectrum (PWS) formulation for calculation of the antenna near fields. The PWS formulation provides much improved efficiency over other nearfield analyses and makes this analysis possible. The method can also be applied to analyze other antenna distortion."
"The exact solution for diffraction by a perfectly conducting quarter plane has been previously determined. This solution is general and needs some simplification before it can become a useful tool for diffraction studies. A tractable approximation to be used in the \"Geometrical theory of diffraction\" is being sought. This paper presents the first step in that direction. It presents the exact solution and some numerical results for a few special cases. The numerical results are the far field patterns for an infinitesimal dipole source located on the quarter plane and very close to the tip. These numerical results are directly applicable to the finite ground plane problem."
"The calculation of approximating vertical plane radiation patterns for doubly curved shaped beam antenna reflectors illuminated by a multiple feed is discussed. Separability of the vertical and horizontal plane patterns is assumed. A calculated example for a two-element feed is compared with measured pattern data. Farfield pattern shaping behavior with multiple feed excitation is described in terms of vector superposition of the patterns due to the individual feed elements."
"A planar log-periodic antenna structure that has radiation characteristics similar to those of a half-wave dipole has been found. The bandwidth can be as large as desired, and antennas can be easily fabricated by using printed circuit techniques. When fed with a suitable balun, VSWR's lower than 1.8:1 can be obtained over a wide-frequency band."
"Previously we calculated the impedance and antenna currents of loop arrays resulting from ground reaction and mutual interaction [1]. Here we make use of those results and develop a general theory of the radiation field for horizontally oriented loop arrays. Radiation patterns of a linear array of 100 horizontally oriented loops are computed numerically in their dependence on ground conductivity, distance, and current phase difference between adjacent loops."
"Phased-array radar systems using wide-band linear-FM pulses suffer from array dispersion. This causes a loss in signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio and in radar range resolution (a broadening of the compressed-pulse width). Depending on the choice of the receiver matched filter (MF) and weighting filter (WF) one or the other of these effects may be minimized. The effects of dispersion in a square planar array with either a parallel feed or a center-fed series feed are studied. Loss in S/N ratio and in range resolution are determined for typical cases, and general curves are given for arrays with arbitrary size, scan range, and signal bandwidth. It is shown that there is an optimum or maximum-useful signal bandwidth for each array, for which the minimum S/N-loss MF-WF design is the same as the ideal-compressed-pulse-shape MF-WF design. For pulses having greater signal bandwidths, time delay steering should be used in the array."
"An experimental program was conducted in which the radar cross section (RCS) of solid and mesh ogive models was measured and compared. The data covered an ogive length to wavelength ratio varying by a factor of 100. The various ogive models, the measurement ranges employed, and typical data are discussed in detail. Some of the conclusions drawn from the study are as follows. 1) For smooth ogives there is a substantial increase in RCS when part or all of its illuminated surface is replaced by mesh. At higher frequencies, the contribution to the RCS from the illuminated mesh area dominates; that from the shadow side is negligible even in the case of off-axis incidence. 2) The measured on-axis RCS of a mesh ogive exhibits oscillatory behavior about a mean value as the frequency is varied. Furthermore, it is found that this value agrees with that calculated for a rough ogive if the scale of roughness is properly chosen. 3) There is a frequency limit below which the mesh ogive RCS is identical to that of a solid ogive. At this frequency, the mesh opening along the axial geodesic direction is no larger than0.03\\lambda."
"The reception theory for quasi-monochromatic partially polarized emissions is employed to describe the antenna temperature when observing a flat scene from within or above an absorbing/ emitting atmosphere. When the polarization aspects of the antenna and scene are carefully observed, the resulting integral expression for the antenna temperature differs significantly from that reported for polarization invariant temperature distributions. It is observed that the antenna couples to both emitted surface polarizations, and the phase character of the antenna introduces a term involving the product of the polarized and cross-polarized antenna patterns. A matrix approximation of the integral expression is suggested and developed as a means for inverting polarized antenna temperature observations for the underlying partially polarized apparent temperature distributions. The resulting matrix formulation is interpreted and special cases are treated. By means of sample cases, the cross-coupling effect between the antenna and the emitted field polarization vectors is illustrated. When the polarization aspects of the radiometer and the scene are ignored, inversions for the apparent temperature are shown to suffer appreciably even for a highly efficient antenna. The sensitivity of the matrix inversion technique to errors in the measurement vector is also examined."
"A lensless method of phase correction for wide-angle sectoral horns is presented. It consists of supplying the narrow walls of the horn with a leaky-wave interface corresponding to a fast phase velocity. An analytical expression of the radiated field is derived by operating the Fourier transform of the theoretical distribution, and a set of theoretical radiation patterns are presented. The limitations of this type of correction, as far as bandwidth is concerned, are also examined theoretically. Two horn antennas illustrating this method of correction are described: anE-plane sectoral horn and anH-plane sectoral horn. Both have a flare angle of120\\degand an aperture of6\\lambda. TheH-plane horn uses a longitudinalU-shaped section, and theE-plane horn a transversely slotted rectangular waveguide. Both of them are measured with and without correction, and the experimental results are compared with the theoretical predictions."
"Measurements of 20-GHz radio wave rainfall attenuation and cross-polarization discrimination due to rain have been conducted since July 1971 in Tokyo. There was a high correlation between rainfall attenuation and cross-polarization discrimination. Rainfall attenuation of 45 dB caused cross-polarization discrimination of 12 dB."
"The radiation fields of an electric dipole oriented perpendicular to the magnetostatic field in a hot uniaxial plasma are considered. The behavior of the fields near the resonance cone for the perpendicular and parallel orientations are found to be similar. A procedure is shown for estimating the electron temperature and density by measurements on the characteristic angular distribution of the fields near the resonance cone."
"The average backscattering cross section of clouds of linear metallic dipoles of resonant length and random orientation is investigated. The effects of mutual coupling among dipoles is included in the analysis by use of computer techniques currently available or being developed. Average backscattering cross sections are Presented for random clouds containing up to 200 dipoles with average spacings from0.5\\lambdato2.0\\lambda. Results show that coupling is insignificant at the largest spacings but causes a 2-3-dB degradation in average echo area at the smallest spacings."
"A general theory of thin-wire multiturn loop antennas is presented. For convenience the windings of the loop are considered to form a circular helix. An integral equation is derived and solved numerically for the current distribution on the antenna. The antenna impedance, efficiency, and pattern are obtained."
"A multielement high power monopulse feed was investigated for excitation of a phased array. This feed has the advantages of high antenna efficiency, effective independent sidelobe control for the sum and difference patterns, and high power handling capability. A 32-element device has been designed which yields theoretical sidelobe levels less than -31 dB for both the sum and difference patterns over the 2800 to 3200 MHz frequency band. The aperture efficiency is 69.5 percent which includes 0.1 dB spillover loss and 1.40 dB tapering loss. The difference slope efficiency defined as the actual slope gain over the maximum possible value is 50 percent at midband. An experimental feed was constructed to verify the predicted performance characteristics. Measured data on both the radiation patterns and the antenna gain agreed very Well with the analytical results. The measured sidelobe level is below -30 dB for all sum and difference beams over the 2800 to 3200 MHz. In addition, this feed can be designed for low power intensity at the feed aperture so that very high power operation can be attained."
"A systematic procedure for matching the active element impedance over a wide scan angle for a wide band of frequencies is given. The application of this procedure is illustrated in a dual-polarization array designed to scan a60\\deghalf-angle cone over a 16-percent bandwidth. The accuracy of this computation has been verified by simulator measurements."
"Expressions which represent the elevation-plane patterns of a large TEM mode coax aperture and aTM_{01}mode circular aperture on finite circular and square ground planes have been derived using geometrical theory of diffraction; design curves for the coax case are presented. The expressions for the field pattern were obtained by superposing the infinite ground plane solutions, the first-order diffracted field solutions and the axial caustic solutions in their respective regions of validity. The pattern analyses for the coax and circular apertures are verified experimentally."
"A statistical inversion procedure is developed for remotely determining the average transverse wind velocity and the atmospheric structure constant atNarbitrary points along a line-of-sight path. Linear integral equations are given relating the amplitude correlation function and the amplitude and phase structure functions with the unknown structure constant and wind velocity. It is shown that the standard matrix inversion leads to large variations, as high as10^{11}percent errors, in the unknown for small data error of one percent; thus the problem is ill posed. The errors are reduced to a suitable level by a statistical procedure that is dependent upon a priori knowledge of the statistics of the unknowns. For the structure constant, a procedure developed by Franklin and others is used, while the wind velocity is determined by modifying the method to include the errors in the structure constant. Computer simulation is used to estimate the error. It is shown that, with an input error of one percent, the rms error in the unknown is only on the order of ten percent. To show the effectiveness of the method, experimental data obtained by a Stanford group are used to determine the wind velocity and the structure constant along the path, yielding reasonable results."
"Radiation from an aperture in a conducting cylinder surrounded by a magnetoplasma layer moving in the axial direction is treated theoretically. Numerical computations are carried out for axial and circumferential slot apertures. For the axial slot case, it is shown that in addition to the main-polarized fields, cross-polarized fields occur in the presence of motion of the plasma layer, and that the radiated power pattern of each polarized field depends on both the constitutive and the velocity parameters of the plasma. For the circumferential slot case, the radiation patterns for two polarized fields are obtained separately, and numerical results are presented. It is shown that the radiated power intensity decreases suddenly at the upper hybrid resonance, which depends upon the velocity and the constitutive parameters of the plasma due to the Doppler effect. In the vicinity of the resonance, rapid oscillations appear in the pattern, and hence the radiated power pattern is remarkably distorted in the resonance region."
 "A study of the field distribution in a square aperture on a plane conducting screen illuminated by a plane electromagnetic wave at normal incidence is presented. In solving the problem, the square aperture is first formulated into a complementary square plate scattering problem. The distribution of current on the plate is then found by solving the corresponding wire mesh model with the aid of a computer program for linear wire antennas. A simple averaging process is then introduced in a straightforward manner to convert the currents flowing along the wires into continuously distributed equivalent surface currents on the square plate. The surface current density is, in turn, equal to the value of magnetic field intensity by the boundary condition for a perfect conductor. Finally, a direct application of the electromagnetic form of Babinet's principle gives the electric field distribution of the aperture. The far zone field in terms of a radar cross section of a square plate compares well with an experiment. A discussion is also included comparing the electric field distribution of a square aperture and circular apertures."
"The effects of adding high dielectric material to the near zone of electrically short antennas are described. Data were collected with three probes in the 20-200 MHz frequency range. Addition of dielectric material improved the impedance match between the probes and50-\\Omegameasurement systems, relative to nonloaded antennas."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Introduces computer programs (FORTRAN IV) designed for field calculation from conducting bodies of revolution. A set of four programs which calculate the generalised impedance matrix and admittance matrix for triangular expansion functions, bistatic radar scattering for an axially incident plane wave, radiation from rotationally symmetric aperture antennas, and radar backscattering for an obliquely incident plane wave, are presented. Results for a number of examples are summarised and discussed. The accuracy of computation depends on the smoothness of the body and of the excitation"
"Experimental data for the fields of EM groundwaves propagating over cylindrical homogeneous paths and two-section mixed paths were obtained by microwave (4.765 GHz) modeling. The cylindrical surfaces, which have a radius of20 \\lambda_{0}, closely approximate spherical surfaces insofar as groundwave propagation is concerned. The model is a curved tank which was constructed as a stratified combination of Plexiglas over distilled water, giving a predictable highly inductive surface impedance. Aluminum foil laid on the Plexiglas produced a nearly perfectly conducting surface wherever needed for the mixed path cases. For both homogeneous and mixed paths the residue series theory agrees well with the experimental data in the shadow and penumbra regions, but the agreement becomes poorer as the observation point moves into the illuminated region where an excess number of residue terms is needed. The results show that a groundwave which crosses an abrupt boundary rapidly acquires the characteristic properties of the second medium at small heights above the surface, and that the equivalent integral solution for mixed paths is therefore adequate close to the surface. This is especially useful near the boundary where the residue series converges poorly. It is concluded that if the constitutive electrical parameters of the earth are precisely known and constant, the theory can be reliably applied to LF and VLF groundwave propagation over the earth where the constraints are even less severe."
"In this work, a new integral equation is employed to calculate the current distribution on a rectangular plate which is illuminated by a plane wave. Numerical results are also obtained for the radar cross section (RCS) of the plate for different angles of incidence and different dimensions of the plate. These results are compared with other RCS computations using geometrical theory of diffraction, physical optics, and variational methods."
"This communication refers the reader to a report where we have studied the effect of atmospheric winds on the frequency spectrum of an electromagnetic wave."
"The fields near a caustic created by an edge diffraction process are computed using the equivalent current concept [1], [2]. These fields are shown to have the property commonly associated with ray optical analysis or the geometrical theory of diffraction, e.g., a90\\degphase shift as the ray passes through the caustic. This result was predicted by Kay and Keller [3] on the basis of solutions for reflected fields from singly curved surfaces. The present effort is directed toward consideration of the caustic created by an edge diffraction process. Particular attention is focused on electromagnetic excitation. The acoustic excitation for the hard boundary condition is outlined in the Appendix. In addition, our present goal is to establish the extent of the caustic region. This is of particular importance when a ray optical solution involves multiply diffracted terms in that the minimum size of the body that can be analyzed may be restricted by the extent of the caustic, i.e., the90\\degphase shift used in ray optical analysis may be introduced only if the caustic is contained on the surface being studied."
"Applying the parabolic approximation, the equations for two-frequency symmetric and antisymmetric mutual intensity functions for waves propagating through a random medium are derived, including the multiple scattering effects. These functions are applied to derive the general formulas for the covariance functions of narrowband pulses. They are used to compute the signal intensities for pulse trains passing through an ionospheric irregularity slab."
"In a recent paper (see abstr. B28664 of 1972), Ingerson and Wong show, using geometrical relations, that the entire deployable reflector can be thought of as being made up of an infinite number of parabolas. They give an expression for the focal length of this infinite collection of parabolas and then state incorrectly that `The infinite collection of parabolas has a continuous distribution of foci. Thus, if a primary feed is placed in focus for one parabola, it is out of focus for the rest of the collection'. This statement is evidently the result of improper application of geometrical optics (surface normals are not taken into account) and provides a wrong physical picture of the focusing and the axial defocusing in the umbrella parabolic reflectors"
"It is pointed out that the sense in which \"linearity\" obtains in the proposed \"quasi-line\" intensity interferometer\" is not that its response is linear with respect to the observed source flux; in fact, it is quadratic in this sense, as is the conventional intensity interferometer. Also, a reinterpretation of the operation of the quasi-linear intensity interferometer is given, and a mode of operation equivalent to a current very-long-baseline technique is suggested."
"A detailed analysis is made of a laterally displaced interrogator sidelobe suppression (SLS) radar beacon antenna system. This method is recommended as a very economical solution to the FAA requirement for installing interrogator SLS capability at operating beacon systems where no provision had been made for interrogator SLS. The analysis was verified by an actual field test at a joint use (Department of Defense/Federal Aviation Agency) radar site at Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. Sidelobe suppression was practically complete and neither time displacement nor blockage was discernible as predicted by the analysis."
"This paper contains a description of the fundamental performance characteristics of a new space feed suitable for wideband operation of phased-array antennas. A unique aspect of this feed is the combination of an active time-delayed small source array and a confocal passive two-reflector system in an offset Gregorian configuration to provide wide-band compensation to a scanning phased array antenna contaning only radiators and phase shifters. A two-dimensional model is analyzed using the plane wave spectrum representation of the near field. Calculations for bandwidths of up to 20 percent of center frequency are given. The good electrical performance of the feed as a function of bandwidth and scan angle establishes this system as an attractive candidate in space feed applications and as a tradeoff competitor or alternative to the conventional corporate feed."
"The results of line-of-sight over-sea propagation measurements over 37.2- and 35.5-km paths near Tokyo, Japan, are presented. Measurements of the fading (0.25, 3.99, 4.15, 6.72, and 18.0 GHz) of the cross polarization distortion (linear polarized wave at 4.15 GHz and circular polarized wave at 6.72 GHz) of the space diversity effect at 4.15 GHz, of the height-gain patterns at 6.72 GHz, and of the frequency-sweep patterns from 18 GHz to 22 GHz are included. The following statistical results are presented: the frequency, seasonal, and path dependence of fading; the effect of different fading occurrence mechanisms, such as K-type, duct-type, and distorted raindrops, for the cross polarization distortion; the diversity improvement factor; the effective reflection coefficient of sea surface; and the path-length difference between direct and sea reflected waves."
"There has been considerable interest in the amplitude and phase fluctuations of the radio signal received from a flyby spacecraft during occultation by a planetary atmosphere. For planetary flyby missions, the Fresnel-zone size exceeds the outer scale size of turbulence, and existing formulations for the frequency spectra of the amplitude and phase fluctuations are inadequate because they do not account for the inhomogeneity of the turbulence in the direction transverse to the propagation path. In this paper, the formulation is given for the correlation functions for the log-amplitude and phase fluctuations of both spherical and plane waves propagating in a turbulent medium whose correlation function for refractive index fluctuations is described by the product of a function of the average coordinate and a function of the difference coordinate. The results are applied to radio occultation of a flyby space probe by the atmosphere of Venus, assuming that the turbulence in the atmosphere exists as a layer, that it is localized, isotropic, and smoothly varying, and that the localized turbulence is described by the Kolmogorov spectrum. Closed-form solutions for both variances and frequency spectra of the log-amplitude and phase fluctuations are obtained using Rytov's method, and it is seen that the shape of the frequency spectra depends a great deal on the characteristics and extent of the turbulence."
"This is a composite program suitable for handling certain analysis and optimization problems involving linear arrays of parallel thin-wire antennas"
"Directional active antennas have been widely studied over the past decade. Most of the efforts have been experimental rather than analytical. The experimental work of Meinke led to the development of an electrically small loop-monopole active antenna suitable for direction finding. This paper shows that performance characteristics such as the noise figures and radiation patterns of the active loop-monopole antenna can be analytically predicted. The analytical techniques used involved the integral equation solutions by the moments method together with standard RF circuit analysis. The predicted results agreed quite well with measurements. Although the antenna is electrically small, any attempt to predict the antenna performance using only the circuit approach may not work, as the mutual coupling between the loop and monopole has a strong effect on both the signal and the noise."
"The results of a study to develop a high temperature dielectric lens antenna for use in the microwave frequency range are presented. The design and fabrication of spherical and hemispherical constant-index lenses are described. Radiation patterns, gain, polarization, and VSWR characteristics of spherical and hemispherical constant-index dielectric lens antennas over the frequency range from 2 to 11 GHz are presented. The results from high-power testing of both spherical and hemispherical constant-index lenses at a 2 kW average power level indicate that this power level causes no degradation in the performance of the lenses."
"Matrix methods for analysis of dipole antenna arrays have been applied to general computer programs but often require large amounts of computation time for multiple-frequency analysis of electrically long arrays, since most of the computations must be repeated for each frequency. It is shown how the special geometry of a leg-periodic dipole antenna may be exploited within the general framework of matrix methods to permit multiple-frequency analysis without the need to repeat all computations for each frequency. The computation of antenna currents at one frequency is made use of in solving for currents at a different frequency; the time consuming matrix inversion step is required only once."
"This paper deals with mutual coupling in a finite planar array antenna, composed of open-ended circular waveguides in a ground plane. The element-by-element approach is used and the problem is formulated as an integral equation, by requiring the transverse electric and magnetic fields to be continuous across the apertures. The equation is then solved by the method of moments and the mutual coupling in a 127-element array is computed. Excellent agreement with measurements and with the active reflection coefficient for the corresponding infinite array is found. The presented method of coupling analysis can be considered as a supplement to the established periodic-structure approaches for infinite arrays and may be useful for the analysis of small or nonperiodic arrays."
"In recent letters a dialogue on the classical dielectric relaxation time has taken place. We describe an extension of the usual derivation, based upon a more precise relationship between conduction current density and electric field intensity within a conductor. With this modification, the charge relaxes in a conducting medium with the classical dielectric relaxation time\\tau_{d}only if this time is much greater than the electron collision time\\tau_{c}. With metals where\\tau_{d} \\ll \\tau_{c}, the charge \"relaxes\" in an oscillatory manner typical of an underdamped second order system, with a relaxation time equal to2\\tau_{c}and a frequency equal to the plasma frequency."
"A method is presented whereby the infinite ground plane analytical model for the self- and mutual admittances of waveguide-fed apertures can be supplemented (using the geometrical theory of diffraction) to include the edge effects of a rectangular ground plane. TheH-plane coupling between twoTE_{11}mode excited circular apertures is calculated and compared with measurements."
"This paper deals with steady-state and transient response of spheroidal antennas in a possible dispersive homogeneous isotropic environment. A modal approach has been used, properly modified in order to circumvent the divergence problem associated with the gap excitation. Conditions under which an input admittance can be unambiguously defined have been derived and an equivalent network given. Quite satisfactory comparisons with experiments and the King-Middleton second-order theory are indicated. The transient analysis has been performed with emphasis on three environmental situations (free space, conductive medium, plasma medium) shedding light on the physical mechanism of radiation in transient conditions."
"An antenna element consisting of a slot plus two parasitically excited wires has been found to exhibit many properties useful in array applications. The introduction of the wires provides a means of controlling both theE- andH-plane element radiation patterns. Specifically, the principal plane radiation patterns can be equalized and the directivity increased. If desired, the element pattern can closely approximate acos \\thetapattern in both planes. A 14-dB reduction in interelement mutual coupling is also achievable with this source as compared to a slot alone. A comparison of the characteristics of a four-quadrant 60-slot monopulse array with and without the wire elements indicates a 0.6-dB increase in gain and a significant reduction in back radiation for the former."
"A synthesis of a simple matching structure for a waveguide phased array element is presented. The matching is in the form of a double-tuned response. Short dielectric discs in combination with a below cutoff section of waveguide approximately realizes the lumped circuit parameters of the ideal double-tuned circuit. The departure from the ideal realization is explained in terms of the dispersive character of the structure and the interdependence of the resonator circuits. Design examples of linearly polarized and wide-scan (75\\degcone) polarization diverse arrays are carried out for bandwidths greater than 10 percent. The completed designs are evaluated considering the multimode nature of the aperture discontinuity."
"In this paper the electric field in the aperture of offset front-fed paraboloid antennas and open Cassegrainian antennas, excited by an electric dipole or Huygens source in the focus, is compared with the fields of front-fed circularly symmetrical paraboloid reflector antennas and classical Cassegrainian antennas. The aperture field forms the basis of expressions to calculate the polarization efficiency of all four types of antenna. Computed results are given, showing that offset antennas can compete with front-fed paraboloids if they are excited by an electric dipole; the classical Cassegrainian antenna, however, shows better results. If offset antennas are excited by a Huygens source, the result is very unfavorable compared with the symmetrical antennas which show no cross polarization."
"This paper describes the measurements of the complex dielectric constants of ice fogs using a Fabry-Perot cavity. The measurements were made at a frequency of 97 GHz over the temperature interval from-30\\degC to-48\\degC. The tests were conducted in an environmental chamber with the fog created by the introduction of a controlled amount of steam. For comparison purposes a helium-neon laser beam (6328 Å) was transmitted through the fog and its extinction coefficient measured. Fog particle number density measurements were made with a four stage cascade impactor. The complex index of refraction of the ice fog was determined from the change in resonant frequency and the amplitude response of the cavity when the fog was introduced. The results were normalized to one dB per meter attenuation of the laser beam intensity. On this basis the fogs studied in this experiment showed refractive index changes of 1 to 2 N units and extinction coefficients varying with temperature between3 \\times 10^{-6}and5 times 10^{-7}cm-1"
"A variational solution is derived for computing the impedance of a radiating longitudinal shunt slot of rectangular shape in the broad face of a rectangular waveguide. This solution, an extension of Oliner's deviation, yields the slot resonant length, accounting for the displacement of the slot from the center of the waveguide. Taking advantage of the results reported in the existent literature, the computation of impedance can be extended to that for a slot in a large array environment, with or without a dielectric sheath covering. Under some reasonable assumptions and comparing the experimental data with theoretical values, a semi-empirical equation is obtained for the resonant length of a slot with round ends in practical applications. The computational method presented in this paper is experimentally assessed to be valuable for the design of slotted waveguide arrays."
"An analytical and experimental investigation of the radiation properties of wide-flare corrugatedE-plane sectoral horns (10\\deg < \\alpha_{0} < 70\\deg, where\\alpha_{0}is the half-flare angle) excited in theHE_{11}mode [1] with improvedE-plane radiation patterns and suppressed side-lobe levels over a broad bandwidth is described in this paper. Given the flare length and half-flare angle of the horn, the far-field radiation pattern is determined by two methods, one of which involves aperture-field integrations based on vector diffraction formula over a constant phase surface at the mouth of the horn and the other of which employs an expansion of the aperture field in terms of free-space cylindrical TE and TM wave functions. Good agreement is obtained between the two methods with measured radiation patterns for several values of\\alpha_{0}. Given the flare lengthy variation of the on-axis gain with\\alpha_{0}of the horn is analytically investigated, and the design procedure for determining optimum\\alpha{0}, in order to obtain maximum on-axis gain, is also indicated. Furthermore, design and experimental studies on wide-flare horns under consideration are also summarized."
"The problem of finding the plane-wave induced current on an infinite wire above the earth is discussed. The formal solution to the general case of arbitrary plane-wave incidence angle and arbitrary polarization is presented. An approximate expression for the current is found which is valid over a wider range of parameters encountered in normal applications. This approximate result is compared with a numerical integration of the exact expression. Numerical results are given for the special cases of the plane of incidence containing the wire and the case of the plane of incidence being perpendicular to the wire. The effect of ground conductivity is found to be very significant in some cases when the incident field is near grazing."
"A method of determining the optimum dimensions of a horn feed for a parabolic reflector using the power transferred to the feed as a criterion is described. To reduce the computation time, the focal plane and feed-horn aperture field distributions were expanded into finite power series whose coefficients were determined using collocation techniques. The paper extends previous work to include horns with flare angles greater than10\\degand contains useful design curves."
"A reflector antenna utilizing three planar reflectors and a 3/4 λ-unipole radiator is proposed. Calculations based on image- and EMF-methods predict that the gain is about 5 dB greater than that of the two-dimensional corner reflector antenna, and that the input impedance is roughly between 50 and 75 Ω. Experiments conducted on the three-dimensional corner reflector antenna with rectangular corners confirmed the predicted properties and also showed the sidelobe in the electric plane being suppressed by the effect of diffraction. This effect is explained by the calculated radiation pattern of 3/4 λ-unipole on conducting half plate"
"A method to calculate the propagation characteristics of the guided modes in a circular tunnel bounded by lossy dielectric media is presented. The effect of an axial thin. wire within the tunnel is also accounted for in the boundary value treatment of the problem. It is found that the attenuation of the transverse electromagnetic (TEM) or coax type mode is greatly increased when the conductor is moved toward the tunnel wall."
  "The design and construction of an electronic-scan phased-array antenna system for use with a clutter-mapping radar system is described. The phased array is capable of\\pm-20\\degof electronic beam steerng and full hemispheric mechanical steerability. It is composed of 780 short-backfire radiators with a total gain of 36 dB. It is vertically polarized and has phase-monopulse-tracking ability. The electronic beamforming and steering is controlled by a digital system using a PDP-11/20 general-purpose computer system. The same computer is used to control the digital clutter-mapping system, which is composed of an A/D converter, multiplexer, digital tape recorder, high-speed disk storage, and an intensity-modulated graphic recorder."
"The radio-frequency interferometry method can be used to probe interiors of celestial bodies and terrestrial areas with low conductivity. Several glaciers have been studied with this technique. An experiment based on this method was designed for Apollo 17 to examine the lunar subsurface. In order to interpret the interference patterns, We have studied theoretically the electromagnetic fields due to a dipole antenna on the surface of a horizontally stratifiedn-layered medium. Three approaches are used to calculate the interference patterns: 1 ) direct numerical integration; 2) asymptotic evaluation by the saddle point method; and 3) residue series approach. The asymptotic approach leads to the geometrical optics interpretation. The residue approach leads to modal analysis. Validity of the formulation is checked by comparisons with analogue model tank experiments and actual field data obtained from glaciers."
"The method of moments solution to the time-domain scattering problem developed by Sayre is rederived for a thin straight wire and applied to the case of nonlinear loading. The derivation is made 1) conceptually simpler by use of Welch's reciprocity theorem and 2) easier to follow by use of inequalities."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A procedure for obtaining the reactive loads of anN-port loaded scatterer to maximize the radar cross section is given. The method involves obtaining the real port currents which maximize radiation power gain and then resonating these currents to make them the dominant characteristic mode of the body.If the scatterer is loss-free and the loads are closely spaced, a large but very frequency sensitive scattering cross section is obtained. This behavior is basically the same as that of supergain behavior in antenna theory."
  "The importance of corrugated conical horns in space-fed illumination of phased arrays is indicated. Design details pertaining to corrugated conical horns of optimum proportions for uniform illumination of a phased array with a prescribed area are also presented."
"A simple formula is given for the approximate total current distribution on the electrically thick short tubular transmitting antenna driven by a delta-function source."
"Simultaneous omnidirectional Doppler shift removal may be accomplished by using a frequency-scanned line source antenna aligned in the direction of net motion. A progressive phase shift along the antenna, which varies linearly with frequency, is required to match the Doppler variation with angle. Simultaneous omnidirectional radiation is accomplished by transmitting bandlimited white noise into the antenna. The resulting antenna system is isotropic, frequency-independent, and radiates a narrow-band signal, as observed by a distant receiver."
"With applications to geophysical subsurface probings, electromagnetic fields due to a horizontal electric dipole laid on the surface of a two-layer medium are solved by a combination of analytical and numerical methods. Interference patterns are calculated for various layer thickness. The results are interpreted in terms of normal modes and the accuracies of the methods are discussed."
"A bifocal dual reflector antenna is similar to and has better scan capability than a classical Cassegrain reflector antenna. The method used in determining the reflector surfaces is a modification of a design method for the dielectric bifocal lens. Computed radiation characteristics of the bifocal reflector system are compared with those of a classical Cassegrain reflector system. The results confirm that the bifocal reflector has superior scanning performance."
"Results of visual observations and statistical analyses on the polarization dependence of fluctuations in radar echo are given. Some data are also given on relative power, as a function of polarization, contained in the two distinctly different fluctuation spectra observed. The fast fluctuations are from wind ripples, and the slower fluctuations are strongly dependent on the sea structure. The information on fluctuations is given as support of a two-scatterer concept for sea echo. The scatterers are: 1) a wind-dependent fine structure of the sea (ripples) interspersed with 2) smooth areas (facets) of the wave structure. The composite theory for rough surfaces developed recently in both the United States and the Soviet Union predicts that average radar cross section of sea echo for transmitting and receiving horizontal polarization never exceeds that for vertical polarization. However, measurements at near grazing incidence yield average HH cross sections that sometimes exceed average VV cross sections, and the observations reported herein suggest that reflection from facets is the cause. The composite theory includes the facets only in the sense of varying the slope of the waves on which the ripples are located. Therefore, the need is emphasized for a sea echo theory that is applicable to small incidence angles and includes the effects of the facets."
"Various effects of coupling between crossed-dipole antennas are analyzed and by using an arbitrary feeding network some generality is preserved. With one cross excited and another cross acting as a parasitic loaded antenna, coupling losses and gain and polarization losses are presented as a function of orientation and feeding network properties. The antennas are used as feeds for a parabolic reflector, and the effect of coupling on the secondary fields is analyzed. Especially significant is the polarization loss and it may, to some extent, be reduced by a proper choice of feeding network."
"The problem of pulsed antennas has two complementary parts: i) analysis of the radiation field when the driving voltage is given and ii) synthesis of the driven voltage when the radiation field is given. In this paper a number of heuristic procedures are presented, relating to the computation of transient radiation from elementary sources, coaxial apertures, infinitely long cylindrical antennas, finite cylindrical antennas, and loop antennas. Comparison with available rigorous solutions and experiments is also provided."
"A technique that can be used to calibrate radar cross section (RCS) levels over a wide dynamic range and to establish overall target signature measurement accuracy is presented. It is based on the development of a specially designed calibration target which is characterized by a linear RCS variation with respect to aspect angle. An inverse scattering technique based on geometrical optics approximation is utilized to define the surface of such a target. Design data describing the surface dimension as a function of the specified maximum and minimum RCS values were developed, and the limitations of the design technique were investigated. An engineering test model covering a 35-dB dynamic range was constructed to verify experimentally the design linearity. priliminary results were excellent."
"A plane wave is considered to be incident upon a cylindrical array of infinitely long perfectly conducting thin wires. The wave is assumed to have no magnetic field component in the direction of the wire axes. Exact expressions are found for the currents excited on the wires-and for the total electric and magnetic fields. Numerical computations are made to determine the currents on the wires and the fields inside the array. It is discovered that an important parameter is the number of wires in the array divided by the number of wavelengths that can be wrapped around the cylinder. If this parameter is large enough, the current distribution on the wires resembles that of a solid conducting cylinder, and the array of wires tends to behave like an electromagnetic shield. For smaller values of the parameter, the current distribution can be quite different, and the field inside the array may even be enhanced."
"The transmitting and the receiving patterns of a dipole antenna for an electron plasma wave have been measured by using the interference method. The results agree fairly well with the theoretical patterns that were predicted from the fluid model analysis and also experimentally prove the reciprocity relationship between the transmitting and the receiving patterns, which is theoretically found to be valid in the plasma wave approximation. The characteristics of the transmitting and the receiving efficiencies versus the dc bias voltage applied to the dipole antenna have been also experimentally investigated."
"Simultaneous matrix equations are first given for solving the problems of scattering by many homogeneous gyrotropic cylinders of different kinds. The numerical results are illustrated for two circular ferrite cylinders, elliptic and circular ferrite cylinders, two parallel linear arrays of circular ferrite cylinders, and a circular array of twelve circular plasma cylinders around a magnetic current source. It is indicated that a sharp main lobe of the linear arrays illuminated by anE-plane wave can be veered by a reversal of the applied static magnetic field, and that with a cyclic change of the dc magnetic fields applied to the circular array one can rotate the radiation pattern having a single big lobe with suppressed side lobes. Some discussions for electronic lobe switching and electronic scanning by gyrotropic cylinders are given. The effects of interactions among the cylinders are also discussed."
"The problem of a charged particle moving in an arbitrary prescribed trajectory near a perfectly conducting sphere is formulated in terms of the magnetic-field integral equation on the sphere. The integral equation is solved with the aid of the solutions of the associated eigenvalue problem. A detailed study of the canonical problem, where the charged particle moves around a sphere in a circular orbit, reveals that a sufficiently accurate solution can be obtained by solving two independent quasi-static problems. Validity criteria are established for the quasi-static solutions in terms of the particle's speed and distance from the sphere. These quasi-static problems can be easily generalized and solved for particles of arbitrary motion and conductors of arbitrary shape. Induced surface currents and charges on the sphere as well as the rate of energy loss of the charged particles are calculated."
"An inverse problem of continuous wave electromagnetic scattering is considered. It is assumed that the incident and the scattered fields are given everywhere and that the material surface properties satisfy the Leontovich boundary condition. Applying the concept of electromagnetic inverse boundary conditions it is shown how the shape and the averaged local surface impedance for spherical monobody and two-body scattering geometries can exactly be recovered. To enable accurate inversion for the multibody or general spherical case, analytical continuation methods in three dimensions are introduced."
"Extended Maue integral equations for determining the surface magnetic fields and currents are developed and applied for points of discontinuous and continuous surface normal. Methods using the associated integral operators are shown to be useful in obtaining solutions which otherwise might not be tractable. Application is made to evaluate the total surface current on a perfectly conducting sphere for general plane wave incident fields. The dyadic result becomes, at normal incidence, proportional to the incident surface current, which, in all cases of field incidence, has a Rayleigh region limiting value of 3/2. The nature of the dyadic result is examined and the behavior of the limiting current ratio is briefly treated for nonspherical shapes including its deviation from 3/2 for near-spherical shapes."
"Recent comparisons of computed and measured backscattering cross sections of cylindrical bodies revealed unexpectedly large discrepancies which were apparently due to the finite range used in the measurements. This led to a reexamination of the farfield criterion for a variety of two-dimensional scatterers and one three-dimensional object. It was found that large errors can be incurred in measurements at the standard far-field distance, especially of bodies characterized by strong edge scattering. Errors as great as 6 dB can occur and it may be necessary to exceed the usual farfield distance by a factor of 5 or more in order to reduce the error to 1 dB."
"The design procedure for the log-periodic dipole (LPD) antenna is discussed, by extending the results presented in a previous paper by the authors. The results of gain calculations, already published, are summarized and extended to cases of very thick dipoles. The gain analysis is completed with a discussion of the optimum antenna input feed lineZ_{0}'the achievable VSWR, the voltage gradient, and the effects of the presence of the ground. All the results of calculations given here are presented as a function ofZ_{0}(the characteristic impedance of the transmission line feeder),h/a(the ratio between the half-length and the radius of the dipoles),\\tau(the logarithmic decrement of the geometrical configuration), and\\sigma(the spacing ratio of dipoles), i.e., the parameters, which usually describe the geometry of an LPD array. The results of calculations are presented in many diagrams, for different values of\\tau,\\sigma, Z_{0}andh/a, which can be useful for accurate design of LPD antennas including those for high-power applications. Measurements of VSWR performed on antenna models have confirmed the computed results."
"The feasibility of using the tripole antenna for circular polarization was experimentally investigated. Measured impedance and radiation patterns were in agreement with the predictions from the infinitesimal tripole model. For simultaneous operation in both senses of circular polarization the tripole antenna must be fed by a special separator network, preferably of the nonreciprocal type."
"Frequency modulated RF pulses with square envelopes are synthesized to mismatch a specified inhomogeneous ionized medium. These pulses when incident on the ionized medium result in compressed and enhanced reflected signals. Three ionization profiles, which are usually used to model the lower part of the ionosphere, are considered. The frequency modulation of the incident pulses that mismatch an ionized medium is found to depend on the ionization profile, the incidence angle, and frequency range used."
"The concept of antenna beam steering by variable surface impedance loading is investigated. It is shown, as an example, that if an electric dipole is mounted over a prolate spheroid with a variable surface impedance, then the radiated beam can be scanned considerably. This is achieved provided that the real part of the surface impedance can obtain both negative and positive values. The possible realization of such a scheme is briefly discussed."
"Radar cross section of a conducting rectangular plate is investigated numerically and experimentally by a wire mesh model as a function of plate size and incidence angle. Numerical examples also include the edge-on incidence where physical optics and the geometrical theory of diffraction fail."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A relatively simple analytic formula is derived for the current in a bare conducting cylinder of length2hand radiusawhen embedded in an isotropic homogeneous dissipative medium and excited by a periodic electric field with uniform amplitude and phase along its axis. In the derivation the same approximations are made as in an earlier analysis of the center-driven antenna for which complete experimental verification has been obtained. Computations are reported specifically for an antenna immersed in the ocean and excited by a field of very low frequency. The principal parameter ish/\\lambdain the range from 0.03 to 0.23 at a frequency of 5 Hz, where\\lambdais the wavelength in sea water. The effect of changes in the radiusaare also shown successively witha/\\lambdaandh/aas the variable parameter. When the results of this paper are combined with those for the center-driven element, they provide the means for determining the response of a center-loaded dipole receiving antenna when immersed in a dissipative medium. Such an antenna is of interest in problems that relate to communication with submerged submarines and off-shore facilities."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"We assume that the backscattered electromagnetic far-field of a perfectly conducting scatterer is known for all aspects and for frequencies greater in magnitude than some positive numberm. Then using standard integral equation techniques, we show how numerical instability enters into the Bojarski-Lewis inverse scattering method. Since the assumed knowledge of the backscattered field is even more complete than can be expected with radar, these results show that for radar applications the Bojarski-Lewis method is numerically unstable. Moreover we show, as expected, that the degree of instability depends directly uponm. The more low frequency information we haves (i.e, the smallermis), the more stable the method is. In the concluding remarks is noted a recent constrained Bojarski-Lewis method that overcomes much of the instability of the original unconstrained method studied here."
   "A multimode circularly polarized rectangular horn antenna generating an elliptical shaped beam is described. This antenna operates in two orthogonal mode sets, namely the TE10+ TE/TM12and TE01+ TE/TM21modes. By virtue of the higher order TE/TM modes, the apertureE-field distribution can be tapered such that the effectiveE-plane far-field beam width is approximately equal to theH-plane beam width of the other orthogonal set of modes, resulting in low off-axis polarization axial ratio. Because of the tapered aperture distribution, the radiation patterns also have low sidelobes. The elliptical cross section beam is a direct result of the rectangular shaped aperture. This antenna, used in conjunction with a spacecraft to illuminate an elliptical zone on the earth surface, offers high edge-of-coverage gain, low sidelobes, low edge-of-coverage (EOC) axial ratio, less RF sensitivity to the space environment, and low cost. The performance of this antenna has been evaluated experimentally."
"It has been shown by this investigator and numerous others [6], [7], [8] that exterior boundary value problems involving localized inhomogeneous media are most conveniently solved using finite difference or finite element techniques together with integral equations or harmonic expansions, which satisfy the radiation conditions. The methods result in large matrices that are partly full and partly sparse; and methods to solve them, such as iteration or banded matrix methods are not very satisfactory. The unimoment method alleviates the difficulties by decoupling exterior problems from the interior boundary value problems. This is done by solving the interior problem many times so thatNlinearly independent solutions are generated. The continuity conditions are then enforced by a linear combination of theNindependent solutions, which may be done by solving much smaller matrices. Methods of generating solutions of the interior problems are discussed."
"The mutual impedance method for determining the reflection from a loaded dipole array is extended to the case of two parallel planar dipole arrays. The dipole arrays are illuminated by a plane wave with arbitrary incidence angle in either theE- orH-plane. The specular reflection coefficient obtained is shown, with proper design, to have a more narrow stop band with steeper skirts and a flatter top than that for a single array. The near-field coupling is included in the analysis, and the criteria for the validity of a simple transmission line solution are given. For close spacings the near fields may cause the reflection coefficient curve to: 1) not reach unity reflection; 2) attain unity reflection at one frequency; or 3) attain unity reflection at two frequencies, with a shallow dip between. The type of resonance curve obtained depends on the spatial arrangement of the two arrays. The evaluation of the mutual impedance sums is greatly simplified by certain impedance relationships that are presented. Calculated and measured reflection curves for various array separations are included."
"The results of research and development, fabrication, and measured transmission performance for a specific streamlined metallic radome are contained in this paper. The measured results presented demonstrate that high-quality radome transmission performance can be attained with a streamlined metallic radome. The conical metallic radome presented is 6 ft 4 in long and has a base diameter of 25.5 in. The specially designed resonant slotted surface of the metallic radome consists of 90 percent metal and, for frequencies within its operating band, the radome permits transmission with any signal polarization over a wide range of scan angles. At its 8.90 GHz resonant frequency the metallic radome introduces less than 0.5 dB signal loss and less than 2 mrad boresight error. This radome has been purposely designed for operation over a narrow frequency band. Over a 200 MHz band, measured insertion loss and boresight error values of 1 dB and 6 mrad, respectively, are attained."
"A design method is presented for symmetrical nonuniformly spaced linear arrays. Element positions are easily found if one element position is given. Instead of restricting the cosine functions in the array factor, a constraint is placed upon the arguments of the cosine functions. For an array of2Nelements, one obtainsN - 1equations inNunknowns, which can be solved sequentially instead of simultaneously. The array designs are not optimum, but the simplicity of this method will allow arrays to be designed quickly. These arrays could inturn be used as preliminary steps toward more rigorous studies."
"The near-zone monostatic scattered fields of flat plate, circular cylinder, and finite right circular cone targets are considered in this communication. The near-zone scattered fields were measured using a Scientific-Atlanta precision EM field probe, and the near-zone fields were computed using the geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD). Good agreement between measurements and predictions resulted. These results indicate that the geometrical theory of diffraction is an accurate descriptor of near-zone scattering."
"The identification and classification of radar targets is facilitated by a newly developed technique based on measurements of the differential phase shift of the target scattering obtained at harmonic phase-locked frequencies. These phase differences are independent of target range and relative motion. It is mathematically proved that for a smooth conducting body in the Rayleigh region the copolarized terms of the scattering matrix have zero phase shift. Based on this, the absolute target phase can be measured. The differential phase shift between two harmonic frequencies has been measured for various types of targets. The experimental results indicate that the differential phase shift is a useful parameter for classifying or identifying targets, and one that can be readily measured in practical radars."
"A technique for making rapid radar cross section (RCS) measurements over wide frequency bands has been developed. The Hewlett-Packard (HP) automatic network analyzer, which measures scattering parameters at discrete frequencies over a wide band and corrects for system errors before presenting measured data, has been adapted to obtaining RCS measurements. This new technique may be viewed as an automated form of the two-antenna RCS measurement method. RCS ranges based on this technique have been used to make RCS measurements of various targets over an octave bandwidth at VHF and atSband. Targets with RCS values greater than -30 dBsm can be measured. Typically the background clutter, antenna cross coupling, and system errors in the absence of a target are reduced by the system measurement techniques to an equivalent value of -45 dBsm."
"The problem of coupling between two circular waveguides is solved using the Wiener-Hopf technique. Expressions for the radiated, reflected, and the transmitted fields are obtained and are expressed by three terms. The first term in these expressions represents the solution for an open ended circular waveguide, while the other two are due to the interaction between the two waveguides. It is shown that, the radiated, reflected, and the transmitted fields can also be found from the reflection coefficient of an open ended circular waveguide and an evaluation of a semi-infinite integral involving the fourier transformed Green's function of the Weiner-Hopf equation. Exact solutions are used to generate the approximate solution of the ray theory of diffraction. This is achieved by expanding the exact solution and using the modified diffraction coefficient of Lee in conjunction with a spherical wave-factor."
"The mutual admittance method is used to calculate the transmission through a two layer array of slots. The slot arrays are thin and parallel. The plane wave illumination is at an arbitrary angle in either theE-plane orH-plane. The mutual admittance between two slot antennas, either in the same or different planes, is derived. In this derivation it is assumed that the slots are small enough so that when short-circuited at their terminals the electric field scattered from the slot is negligible. The evaluation of the mutual admittance sums is simplified by the extension to the slot case of certain impedance relationships established previously for a two-layer dipole array. For many applications the two-layer slot array is more desirable than a single-layer array since a wider passband and sharper skirts can be obtained with proper design. The analysis shows, however, that for high incidence angles the dip in the center of the passband may be deeper than for the similar two-layer dipole array."
"The effect of plasma on antenna characteristics is a subject of considerable interest and many researchers have attempted this problem for different plasma situations. Analysis has been made of antennas in plasmas for different current distributions using various analytical methods. Also current distributions on the antenna have been obtained without taking into account the ion sheath effect. In this paper an attempt has been made to solve the boundary value problems of an infinitely long cylindrical antenna of a finite radius for the case when the antenna is not in direct contact with the plasma. Solving the current distribution, which is in the form of an inverse Fourier transform, the input admittance, etc., has been theoretically obtained and the results are compared with the experimental findings of Miller and Monroe."
"Depolarization of a circularly polarized radar signal, scattered by an infinite cylinder, is examined over a large range of values for the electrical circumferenceka. Experimental data were obtained to verify the prediction that the circular depolarization ratio exceeds unity at normal incidence for a sizeable range ofkaless than unity. Backscattering widths and field phases are analyzed for linear and circular polarizations as they relate to scattering from the infinite cylinder."
"The problem of Gaussian beam interaction with a planar interface separating two semi-infinite homogeneous isotropic lossless media is considered for regular incidence, i.e., excluding the case of total internal reflection. The reflected and refracted fields are expressed in terms of the fundamental and higher order complex beam modes. These newly identified complex beam modes differ from the conventional beam modes and they describe the structure of the reflected and transmitted fields in a more convenient manner."
"A horizontally polarized impulsive plane wave is incident on a uniform half space of cold lossless plasma. The exact form of the resultant impulse response is found for any depth in the plasma in terms of two integer-order Bessel functions by inverting an appropriate Laplace transform. It is shown that as the observer's position in the plasma is increased, the frequency and relative amplitudes of the oscillations of the impulse response increase in a corresponding fashion. Numerical results are presented to illustrate these effects."
"Xband measurements of the VSWR's and radiation patterns of an axial rectangular slot on six conducting cylinders of different curvature are reported. The cylinders hadk_{0}a(k_{0}is the free-space wavenumber andais the cylinder radius) varying from\\inftyto 1.5. Measurements were performed both with the slot bare and with the slot covered by space cloth. Fork_{0}aas low as 3, the effect of curvature was relatively small. Belowk_{0}a \\simeq 3, changes in the VSWR and radiation pattern were more pronounced, the pattern being relatively more sensitive to changes ink_{0}athan the VSWR."
  "The radiation patterns of a parabolic reflector with large lateral-feed displacements are computed utilizing both the vector current method and scalar aperture theory, and compared to experimental results. The theory is general enough to include asymmetric primary pattern illumination. The scalar and vector solutions are derived from the same initial equation so that the approximations used in obtaining the scalar solution are clearly displayed. Results from the vector and scalar theories are compared and the range of validity of the approximate analysis is indicated."
"The purpose of this study is to determine the optimum structure of a Yagi array of circular loops subject to constraints on directivity, bandwidth, or the size of the array. It is shown that an array configuration is completely determined when any two of these constraints are specified. It is also shown that the optimized Yagi array of loops may have either a directional beam in the endfire direction or a conical-shell beam."
"Coupling between minimum scattering antennas (MSA's) is investigated by the coupling theory developed by Wasylkiwskyj and Kahn. Only rotationally symmetric power patterns are considered, and graphs of relative mutual impedance are presented as a function of distance and pattern parameters. Crossed-dipoles and helices are considered in order to establish a correspondence with simple antenna structures."
"Wavefront diagrams are presented for the near-field region of a 10-element ordinary endfire array and its Hansen-Woodyard counterpart. The diagrams, which show phase and amplitude distributions, give a visual insight into the radiation mechanism of endfire arrays."
"Some important features of the scattering resonances of an axially magnetized plasma column with a perfectly conducting core are emphasized. The boundary conditions applicable at the plasma-vacuum interface are clarified."
  "This paper discusses optical second-harmonic generation (SHG) using phase-matching phenomena among the guided modes. The phase-matched film thickness, the phase-mismatching coefficient due to the variation of film thickness, and the gain reduction factor of the guiding structure are generally discussed here. The scattering loss originating from the boundary of the guide structure restricts the operation of SHG and is given by a simplified formulation."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A CW transverse-flow chemical CO laser based on the CS+O→CO+S(+75-kcal/mole) reaction has been studied. Power output is 4.5 W with a gas flow of 70 l/min at 5.4 torr. The output occurs in the 3-2 to 14-13 vibrational transitions. Gain measurements have been made for a number of lines. The maximum observed gain coefficient is 0.006 cm-1. The variation of the laser output with a number of parameters including the distance between CS2 injection and the optical cavity axis is also reported."
"An original frequency-mixing technique is described which conveniently measures the third-order optical susceptibility of any transparent material. Results are presented for χ1111(3)(-ω3, ω1, ω1, -ω2) in a number of materials. These measurements permit estimates of the nonlinear index n2."
"Various models of a passively mode-locked quasi-continuous laser are discussed and the evolution of pulses in various cavity configurations is traced. In certain circumstances, the combined action of amplifier and absorber saturation is shown to lead to rapid pulse compression even when the pulse duration is far shorter than the relaxation time of either nonlinear component. The results are in good agreement with recent streak- camera measurements involving the pulsed Rhodamine 6G dye laser and satisfactorily explain the efficient generation of picosecond pulses in CW dye-laser systems. The same pulse-compression mechanism can probably be used to generate ultrashort pulses in other quasi-continuous lasers."
"A nitrogen-laser-pumped dye laser has been made to operate in the rotationally symmetric TE01 or TM01 modes. The modes are preserved as the laser wavelength is varied. The mode selector allows convenient switching from one mode to the other. The theory of the operation of the mode selector is described."
 "Superradiant laser emission at 5106, 5700, and 5782 Å is reported from pulsed discharges in copper iodide vapor at temperatures near 600°C. This conclusion is supported by pulse shortening of the visible emission and a marked increase in the relative visible intensity compared to the copper resonance radiation as the critical temperature range is approached. Electrical dissociation of the copper iodide, electron impact excitation of the copper atoms, and radiation trapping of the 3248- and 3274-Å resonance lines are proposed as the principal inversion mechanisms. Below\\sim450\\degC, where insufficient copper iodide is vaporized to provide resonance trapping, the upper laser level lifetimes are ∼10 ns, whereas at higher temperatures trapping is complete and the effective2P3/2and2P1/2lifetimes are 615 and 370 ns, respectively. The reservoir temperature at which stimulated emission is observed is in good agreement with calculations of the threshold ground-state copper densities required for resonance trapping. These experiments indicate that practical copper laser systems operating at substantially reduced temperatures can be developed provided instabilities in the copper iodide discharges can be overcome."
"Cold cathodes for CO2lasers should possess a very low sputtering rate, have a minimum of negative ions in the sputtering products, and consume no oxygen. These conditions can be satisfied by selecting cathode materials from those elements of group I in the periodic table which form semiconducting oxide layers and then exposing these elements to a reducing gas mixture. Experimental results show that silver, internally oxidized silver-copper alloys, and pure copper satisfy most of these requirements in He-CO2-CO-Xe gas mixtures. Infrared CO and CO2gas analysis performed on simple gas discharge tubes using such cathodes indicate that laser lives of 10 000 h can be expected. In our laboratory a 1-W sealed-off CO2laser using a gas volume of only 50 cm3had an initial power output of 0.72 W which rose to 1.1 W after 3000 h and still gave 0.7 W after 12 000 hours; the laser used an internally oxidized silver-copper alloy cathode."
"New nonlinear optical orthorhombic formate crystals HCOONa and HCOOLi0.9Na0.1H2O have been grown from aqueous solutions in order to extend the transparency to the near infrared region. Their transmission characteristics, refractive indices, and Sellmeier's dispersion relations, together with nonlinear optical properties associated with second-harmonic generation (SHG), have been examined. By measuring second-harmonic intensities from these two crystals generated with a repetitivelyQ-switched Nd :YAG laser, we have derived the effective second-order nonlinearities deffas a function of the phase-matching angles θ and φ. These compare favorably with the analytical result. The optimum SHG condition for both the Crystals can be determined through the analysis. HCOOLi0.9Na0.1. H2O mixed crystal is transparent from 0.24 to about 1.9 μm with wider infrared transmission compared with lithium formate. It is of practical interest for its useful second-order nonlinearity and easily-grown large crystals."
"The observation and quantitative measurement of optical heterodyne detection in the far infrared (IR) (λ=118.6 μm) using a Ge:Ga detector are reported. The experimental results fall below theoretical predictions; the discrepancy is explained in terms of the NEP of the detector used and the low value of local oscillator power available in the experiments."
"Tunable IR signals can be generated by the proposed arrangement comprising a CO2 laser and a tunable millimeter-wave cavity coupling modulator. The position of the modulator within the laser cavity was found to be critical but can be optimized. Under optimum conditions, 2.5 mW (8.0 mW) can be expected in each sideband with 1-W drive power for GaAs (CdTe) crystals at bandwidths of 21 GHz (10 GHz). The design principle of the millimeter-wave cavity was verified in a scaled-model experiment."
"Pulses of 1-ns duration have been generated at 10.6μ without mode locking the CO2oscillator. A scheme is described which allows generation of a single pulse or a pair of pulses with adjustable spacing between pulses."
"An experimental one-way 8-Mb/s 10.6-μm laser communication system that utilizes optical FM and heterodyne detection has been engineered to allow continuous operation through a variety of weather conditions. Performance over paths of 3 mi and 20 mi is described. Nearly 2000 h of data have been accumulated, including one continuous run of 1320 h with less than 5 percent downtime due to weather."
"The breakdown threshold for a 10.6-μm 200-ns laser pulse in air filled with carbon particles was increased by application of a low-intensity high-fluence precursor pulse, When the beam contained many particles with diameters\\leq4 \\mum, the threshold was raised to within a factor of ≃3 of clean air with a 40-J/cm2precursor. With single 50-μm particles in the beam, the threshold was raised a factor of ≈19 which was within a factor of ≈2 of clean air, The mechanisms responsible for the particle clearing are shown to be the vaporization of small particles and the jetting of larger particles out of the beam. The coupling coefficient for carbon particles was found to be ≈2 dyn. s/J and the long-pulse breakdown threshold for 50-μm carbon particles was found to be\\approx2 \\times 10^{7}W/cm2, with times to breakdown ranging from 1 to 15 μs."
"Scale factor experiments were performed using an internal-mirror quartz-block 1.15-μm He-Ne laser, having a cavity length of 9.868 cm. The configuration was an equilateral triangle and the nominal geometric scale factor was1.035 \\times 10^{5}counts per revolution. To avoid lock-in (20°/s) the laser was rotated at rates of5000-9000\\deg/s. Using an equal mixture of neon isotopes, the scale factor was measured as a function of frequency tuning and, at the peak power frequency, as a function of discharge current. At the peak power frequency, the relative scale factor was reduced by 0.3 percent over the value found off the center. The slope of the relative scale factor variation was -0.03 percent per percent gain. To explain the experimental results, both radiation trapping and a strong signal theory were needed. Calculations showed a strong scale factor variation with loss that was ∼414 times the gain variation."
"A description is given of the development and performance of a 20-1 cryogenically cooled electric CO laser designed for pulsed operation at pressures up to 1 atm. The gas is excited by an electron-beam-sustained discharge. Output pulse energies in excess of 1 kJ have been observed with a total electrical efficiency of approximately 15 percent."
"There exists a need for laser systems with wavelength diversity and a high energy per pulse. This may be achieved with an Nd:YAG oscillator amplifier system operated either at 1.06 or 1.33μ. Methods of obtaining oscillation at 1.33μ by suppressing the oscillation at 1.06 μ are presented. The energy per pulse from a laser oscillator can be increased by minimizing thermal problems. One method of accomplishing this is spectral filtering of the flash-lamp output. Experimental results obtained for an Nd:YAG oscillator operating at 1.33 μ with various filters are presented. The energy per pulse can be further increased by the use of a laser amplifier. The effects of the amplifier on a laser pulse are investigated analytically for both circular and Gaussian cross-section beams. This investigation includes the effects of the amplifier saturation, the temporal distortion of the output pulse, and the distortion of the output intensity profile. The analytical results are compared with an experimental Nd:YAG amplifier operating at 1.06 μ."
"The development of a new type of plasma-cathode electron gun suitable for pulsed as well as CW operation withe-beam lasers is reported. This device employs a plasma generated within a low-voltage hollow-cathode discharge rather than a thermionic emitter as the source of electrons. Electrons extracted from the plasma pass through a triode-type control grid structure and are accelerated to high energies in a plasma-free region prior to emerging from the gun through a thin foil window (the foil window was replaced by a solid collector in the tests described here). A plasma-cathode device producing a beam of up to 30 cm2in area has been evaluated at beam energies up to 140 keV, at 100-μs pulsed beam current densities up to 1 A/cm2, and at CW current densities of greater than 0.7 mA/cm2. The beam current uniformity has been evaluated and the beam has been measured to be monoenergetic to better than 3 percent at the foil-window location. The major life-limiting factors have been shown to be minimal. Devices capable of producing beams of arbitrarily large areas should he possible."
"The phase velocities of the optical waves guided in nematic-liquid-crystal waveguides can be electrically modulated by about 10 percent. Optical deflection in such waveguides are demonstrated in a configuration with an electric field applied across a film of thickness of the order of 1 μ. Effective index of refraction is changed by about 0.01/volt. Response time of the effect is in the millisecond range. Results of an analysis show good agreement with the measurements."
"Rod amplifiers of 51-mm diameter and disk amplifiers with diameters of 51 and 86 mm were designed and some units have been built for use in a four-beam high-energy glass laser at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory (LASL). The design goals and measured characteristics of these amplifiers are discussed. Data on self-focusing damage in both rods and disks are presented. Important characteristics of capacitor-bank design, flashlamp construction, and laser glass are discussed. Completion of the four-beam system is scheduled for early 1974."
"The qualitative theory of the CO2laser at atmospheric pressure was developed. Investigations of a CW CO2laser at high pressure with conventional and waveguide resonators and obtaining CW oscillation in the mixture of three isotopic molecules,12C16O2,12C16O18O, and12C18O2, are reported. The problem of building a super-high-resolution spectrometer on the basis of a CW high-pressure CO2laser with mixed isotopes is discussed."
"The design and operation of an efficient stable frequency-doubled single-frequency Nd :YAG laser providing a unidirectional harmonic output is discussed. Efficient resonant cavity designs utilizing the Nd:YAG rod as an internal focusing element were used to provide adequate TEM00-mode volume in the rod and a small beam waist at the nonlinear crystal (Ba2NaNb5O15) for optimum intracavity second-harmonic generation (SHG). Various two-component low-loss intracavity mode filters were investigated and a double Fabry-Perot (F-P) fused-quartz etalon arrangement devised to obtain single-frequency operation with relative ease. The unidirectional harmonic output geometry uses a 45° mirror which favorss-polarized laser oscillations at 1.06 μm and very effectively transmits the second harmonicp-polarized radiation. Other component designs include short-radius mirror coatings highly reflective at 1.06 and 0.53 μm, and antireflection (AR) coatings on the nonlinear crystal for both wavelengths. Relative phase differences between the fundamental and harmonic radiations are uncritical and compensable by adjusting the nonlinear crystal temperature. The techniques adopted have proven adequate and stable unidirectional single-frequency power outputs of 0.3-0.5 W were obtained consistently from a 5- by 50-mm Nd:YAG rod pumped effectively with 850 W with a tungsten-iodine lamp in a spherical pump cavity."
"Experimental data pertaining to the intracavity propagation characteristics, the mode volume dissimilarity, and the fractional output coupling Characteristics associated with the oppositely traveling waves in CO2asymmetric unstable ring resonators are reported. Equivalence relations are derived, extending Siegman's unstable resonator analysis to encompass asymmetric traveling-wave geometries. Optical feedback techniques to suppress the oscillation associated with one of the traveling waves are demonstrated to be an effective means of achieving unidirectional ring laser operation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"CW laser action is reported for N,N'-di-β-phenylethylrhodamine in an ethanol-water binary solution. Performance appears to be competitive with Rhodamine 6G, with an output wavelength and tuning curve slightly to the blue relative to Rhodamine 6G."
"Using external second-harmonic generation (SHG) in Ba2NaNb5O15, a second-harmonic (SH) power of 550 mW, mode locked at 453 MHz has been demonstrated. Short- and long-term stabilities of better than ±5 percent peak-to-peak variation have been obtained at up to the 400- mW level. The maximum stable SH power was limited by absorption of the SH by the Ba2NaNb5O15SHG."
"A review of the status and properties of coherent sources of ultraviolet radiation is presented. This includes a wide range of developments concerning atomic and molecular systems useful for generating wavelengths below 4000 Å, as well as progress in alternative methods of ultraviolet production. Particular emphasis is placed on recent advances in molecular bound-free systems whose operation is enhanced at high densities. It is believed that some of these systems may be scalable to sufficiently high-energy outputs to be useful in controlled fusion applications. A brief prognosis and discussion of future developments tending to the X-ray region are given."
"A modulation technique based on laser spiking is described. Due to its reproducibility and simplicity, this technique is well suited to adapt the laser emission to the kinetics of laser machining. Spike power and half width are derived by using nonlinear approximations."
"High-frequency intracavity coupling modulation of the CO2laser has recently attracted considerable interest as an efficient means of achieving wide-bandwidth modulation with low modulator drive power. In the present investigation, intracavity coupling modulation was achieved at 1 GHz. Both GaAs and CdTe crystals were investigated and an optical beat method was used to explore the operational characteristics of such systems without having to go to the expense and trouble of high-speed detectors. The modulation efficiencies at the 1-GHz modulation rate were 0.5 and 1 percent for GaAs and CdTe electrooptic modulators, respectively. Modulator crystal characteristics such as electrical resistivity, radiation absorption, crystal uniformity, etc., which are of critical importance for intracavity modulation, were also measured for both crystals."
"The conditions for population inversion between theC^{3}\\Pi_{u}andB^{3}\\Pi_{g}levels (\\lambda = 3371Å) of N2such as the excitation time and the optimum value ofE/pare calculated. To meet the required conditions for a very fast population inversion, we describe a traveling wave laser structure which is very simple. We study the experimental curves of the laser power as a function of the following parameters: channel length, pressure, distance between electrodes, velocity matching between excitation traveling wave pulse and light, and spark gap breakdown voltage. Best results obtained to date are a peak power of 9 MW with a total efficiency of about 1 percent and a ratioE/p\\simeq 200V/cm. torr."
"In some CO2laser systems it is necessary to isolate the amplifier sections from reflected light, n-type InSb is shown to be the best semiconductor to use in a free electron Faraday isolator. Theoretical properties of such a device are discussed and compared with measurements made on a prototype isolator."
"The absorption lines in methyl bromide, vinyl chloride, and 1, 1 difluoroethylene used to modulate the CO2laser lines have been spectroscopically observed using a spectrometer which uses the signal generated by mixing a CO2laser and a millimeter wave klystron in a gallium arsenide loaded waveguide as a source. The results indicate that Stark modulation with symmetric top molecules is not necessarily due to large first-order splittings as previously assumed and that the modulation is not linear with the applied electric field."
"Experimental studies involving laser welding, cutting, and surface heat treating have been performed over the past two years at power levels of 4-16 kW, using an electron-beam stabilized CW Co2laser [1], [2]. Deep penetration welds have been made in a variety of materials including carbon and stainless steels, titanium, and aluminum. In all cases, normalized welding speeds and penetrations were in good agreement with electron-beam welding data. Actual values of material penetration in 304 stainless steel were within 70 percent of those achieved under the same conditions with hard vacuum electron beams between 50-200 in/min. A limited amount of testing has been conducted on laser cutting. For most of the tests, an inert gas jet was used to clear the kerr material and shield the cut edges. Band-saw quality edges were obtained in materials such as Inconel 718. Edges were sufficiently free of oxide formations and irregularities to allow rewelding of the pieces with the resulting weld quality equal to that for the machined edge samples of the same material. For heat-treating applications, the laser beam was defocused to spot sizes variable from 3/8 to 1 in, and the resulting beam has been swept over the surface of heat-treatable iron and steel coated with an appropriate absorptive material. With this setup, hardening case depths of 0.005-0.05 in have been achieved with very little part distortion and surface upset; Hardness in excess of Rc60 has been achieved. Hardening coverage rates of 100 in2/min have been achieved."
                "The problem of e.m. gaussian beam interaction with a planar interface separating two lossless dielectric media, for regular incidence, is considered. Employing a modal plane wave expansion and the continuity of the fields across the boundary, the reflected and refracted beams are obtained. Use is made of the Fresnel approximation and a Taylor series expansion of both the reflectance and transmittance, for both polarization cases. Particular emphasis is given to the shift of both the reflected and refracted beams, the change in width of the transmitted beam, and the behaviour at polarizing incidence."
"This paper describes an experimental technique for evaluating anechoic chamber reflectivity utilizing a new NBS isotropic probe mounted on a polyfoam track and support structure designed for probing the chamber's quiet zone in all three orthogonal planes. The probe is omnidirectional within\\pm 1dB and has sufficient sensitivity to permit evaluation of reflectivity levels as low as 59 dB. It can be used from 150 MHz to 10.0 GHz. Complete scattering information is obtained without applying a receiving antenna pattern correction with only 3 orthogonal scans per frequency required. The paper presents a brief treatment of the theory involved, a description of the system and measurement technique employed, and a discussion of typical measurement results."
"A novel traveling wave antenna, the chain antenna, is described. It consists of a ground plane close to which is a chainshaped conductor along which propagates a TEM wave. The loops of the chain are rectangular with typical dimensions of 0.4 wavelength times one wavelength. Several chain antennas can be connected in parallel giving a grid antenna. The grid antenna has a linearly polarized frequency scannable pencil beam and only one feed point per hundreds of radiating elements which makes it especially suitable for HF, VHF and UHF frequencies when high gain antennas are needed."
           "Experimental antenna and propagation results, achieved while studying the feasibility of a technique for setting the detonation times of projectiles after they have been fired, are presented. Two aspects of the work are described: 1) Radiation patterns of the fuze receive antenna configuration, and 2) Progagation losses resulting from transmitting through ionized gun gases or through a rocket plume."
    "An antenna, designed for mast or roof-top mounting and incorporating esthetic considerations, has been tested for use in the 17.7-to 19.7-GHz frequency range. A gain efficiency of 60% and highly directive symmetrical radiation patterns have been obtained. Elevation beam aiming of plus or minus 4 degrees from horizontal is achieved by tilting an internal plane reflector. The antenna canister is also designed to provide space for electronic modules."
     "The general problem concerning the interaction of a measuring probe antenna with the near-field radiated by an arbitrary antenna is considered. The application of the Lorentz reciprocity theorem to the problem of determining the far-field pattern radiated by the antenna from the output of the probe when it is used to measure the near-field of the antenna over some specified surface is discussed. The probe compensation data required to correct for the directional effects of the probe, the effect of probe correction on the measured data, and the necessary mathematical computations are described. Modifications to the basic theory are described for the case of determining the far field receiving pattern of non-reciprocal antennas. The spatial sampling of the near field is discussed, and methods for filtering the data to reduce computer requirements are described. The calculated far-field patterns from specific near-field measurements are presented, and the accuracy of the calculated patterns is discussed."
 "The system advantages and limitations imposed by the solid state phased array radar are reviewed. The implications of these factors on the radar subsystems are discussed and the characteristics of the U.S. Army test bed solid state radar are presented."
  "Solid state transceivers have been utilized in an L-Band array.The experience associated with the acquisition of over 300,000 total transceiver operating hours obtained with 97 transceivers will be described."
"The advantages of Solid-State Transmitters and typical configurations will be briefly described. Several S.S. L-band modules developed over the past two years are delineated. The technical design approach of high power S.S. amplifiers will be discussed with emphasis on design for low junction temperature (long life) and production yield. A technique utilizing Smith Chart contour curves is presented."
"A computer-aided technique has been developed for the design of matching networks that are adaptive, in the sense that the network can be controlled by a change in one or more voltages. These control voltages are automatically varied with a change in the frequency of operation, over wide bandwidths, in such a manner that the match between a complex impedance load and source can be improved over that obtainable with a fixed passive network."
"This paper extends the modified function theoretic technique (MFTT) to problems which previously can be solved only by other methods such as the moment methods, the geometric theory of diffraction or the generalized scattering matrix technique (GSMT). The increased computational accuracy and the ability to satisfy explicitly all of the edge conditions of a problem appears to be the major advantages of using MFTT. As an example, the radiation characteristics of a five-element, unflanged parallel-plate waveguide is discussed."
"Hallen-type integral equations are formulated for an arbitrarily bent thin monopole antenna above an infinite perfect ground plane, and by numerical techniques current distributions are obtained. The coupled integral equations are founded upon the familiar electric scalar and vector magnetic potentials."
 "An approximate solution to the electromagnetic boundary value problem consisting of a horizontal cylindrical arbitrarily oriented magnetic dipole is found using an iterative perturbation technique in a double Fourier transform space. This model is used to gain insight into the anomalous fields due to strong scatterers such as pipes or tracks which would be in close proximity to an EM mine rescue operation. The novel three-dimensional aspect of the problem (i.e., the source) imposes the complexity that the current in the cylinder is not uniform. The field expressions are ideally suited to evaluation using an FFT algorithm."
      "Closed form expressions for computing the input conductance and current distribution of long horizontal antennas near the earth are derived. The theory is an extension of the recently developed theory of modal propagation on an infinite horizontal wire. In that work, a previously unreported propagating mode is shown to be an important part of the current excited on a horizontal wire by a voltage source. It is shown that long antennas have certain advantages when used in geologic remote sensing applications."
"The focal region characteristics of offset fed reflector antennas have been investigated both analytically and experimentally. In order for offset reflectors to have analogous focal region properties to those of front fed parabolic reflectors, an offset axis and an offset focal plane are defined. The definitions of the offset axis and offset focal plane are essential for satisfactory operations of offset reflectors illuminated by a cluster of feeds. Numerical results using physical optics approximation are presented to show the dependence of the beam deviation factor of offset reflectors upon the edge angle (\\Theta_{E}) and the orientation of the feed axis(\\Theta_C{o})."
        "The Log-Periodic Dipole Antenna (LPDA) is attractive as a broadband feed for paraboloid reflectors despite its tendency to cause defocusing owing to axial phase-center movement with frequency. The gain loss due to defocusing in a parabolic reflector is only a function of the defocusing in terms of wavelengths and not dependent on the diameter of the reflector. Hence, antennas such as the LPDA which have a frequency independent phase center location in terms of wavelengths from some geometrical point (virtual apex) will experience a frequency independent defocusing loss over its bandwidth if the virtual apex is placed at the focal point. The optimum feed design for maximum gain will change with varying reflector f/D (reflector focal length to diameter ratio) since spillover, aperture illumination, and defocusing loss are functions of f/D, while primary pattern beamwidth and symmetry, gain and VSWR are functions of the feed parameters."
         "The development of a5,5\\lambda. diameter flat plate array antenna operating at X-band is described. The antenna has 52 stripline fed slot elements with plated mode suppressors and a feed network integrated in a single-layer structure. The main interest has been in side lobe performance. As a goal specification an average side lobe level of -35 dB was required. This has also been achieved in practice but with the first side lobes peaking somewhat higher. In the paper the theoretical design, including aperture excitation synthesis, mutual coupling consideration and tolerance analysis, is discussed. The development of the radiating element and the feed network is also treated and a brief description is given of the manufacturing process and the measured performance of two prototypes."
"The work described here has provided a successful analysis for the input impedance of different slots in a finite phased array. The mechanism which gives rise to coupling accumulation, causing \"blind spots\" at scan angles within the scan range has been disclosed. New means for avoiding such effects are introduced. This analysis is based upon the integral equation formulation of the boundary value problem. The solution of the integral equation is approximated by a solution of a truncated set of linear equations. To this end, the set of internal TE and TM waveguide modes was used as a basis for field representation inside the radiating slots."
  "A solution of the nonlinear electrothermal problem of the scattering of plane electromagnetic waves normally incident on a polyconductor slab with a metal substrate is presented. Since the electrical conductivity of the slab is a nonlinear function of the temperature profile, and hence the power absorbed at every point in the slab, the formulation for the electric field and temperature distribution in the slab leads to a pair of coupled nonlinear second order partial differential equations which are solved by the W.K.B. and finite difference methods. The variations of the reflection and transmission coefficients, the surface impedance and surface temperature (above initial temperature) with frequency and incident electric field, as well as the resulting profiles of the electric field, conductivity and temperature inside the slab are presented in graphical form. These results suggest certain practical applications which are also described."
"The radiation pattern at 1775 megahertz of a F-102 airplane with four cavity backed slot antennas at given locations measured by U.S.A.F. RAT-SCAT, New Mexico, is compared with its ultrasonically simulated radiation pattern taken at the Radar Simulation facility of the Wave Propagation Laboratory, University of Houston, using a 22.6 to 1.0 scaled down model, at 0.2 megahertz utilizing spherical transducers to simulate isotropic antennas. The exact simulation of horizontally polarized electromagnetic waves in air by longitudinal ultrasonic waves in water was further supplemented by a reasonable match of the Fresnel reflection coefficient by the aircraft fuselage material in both cases. The comparison shows that overall radiation patterns are indeed well simulated, as to their general variation around their isotropic level, including the location of major maxima and minima. Furthermore, there are no nulls deeper than 10 db and wider than3\\deg-5\\degat their +3 db points in both patterns. This comparison verifies the utility of ultrasonic simulation of electromagnetic radiation of antennas mounted on complex aerodynamic bodies. It is believed to be the first time that antenna radiation has been successfully ultrasonically simulated for a flat ground plane as well as a large aerodynamic Ground plane such as the F 102."
"Accuracy considerations in the measurement of the power gain of a large microwave antenna are discussed. Using the gain comparison method with a standard antenna of approximately 40-dB gain, a large antenna with a power gain of approximately 60-dB can be calibrated to within an error of 0.17 dB (3\\sigma)."
     "The present paper gives a simple method for synthesising a feed system for the spherical reflector to minimise the phase error \"spherical aberration.\" The spherical reflector is considered as if it were consisting of several subsurfaces each approximating a certain hypothetical paraboloidal surface, resulting in several paraboloidal surfaces having parallel axes and different foci. The proposed feed system consists of several feeds located at these foci and arranged such that every one illuminates the corresponding subsurface of the reflector. The feeds are phased so that the reflector aperture is illuminated in phase. A feed system consisting of five feeds is designed, yielding a maximum phase error of 0.00079, with\\pm 38\\degangle scanning."
    "This paper reports the results of polarization isolation measurements on a polarization grating at 6 GHz. The grating was designed for a four-foot diameter circular reflector antenna. Between 5.9 and 6.4 GHz the grating alone exhibited a worst case cross-polarization isolation of 29.4 dB within the 3 dB beamwidth of the antenna. In combination with the inherent isolation of the antenna this isolation was increased to better than 45 dB."
"Microwave antennas with limited electronic scanning capability have found increasing use in various radar applications. Major areas include GCA [1], [2], instrumentation radars [3], hostile weapon locators [4] and satellite communications. The primary advantage for the application of these antennas is the lower hardware cost. A particular type of limited scan antenna makes use of a dual reflector configuration which is fed by a small phased array [5], [6]. There are a number of advantages associated with the dual reflector limited scan antennas, in comparison to the single reflector limited scan antennas [7]. Antenna capabilities and hardware limitations of both antenna types will be discussed. Due to the large set of antenna parameters involved in the dual reflector hybrid antenna configurations, computer simulation techniques are used to analyze these antennas. Ray tracing technique is used to determine various gross geometric relationships and diffraction integral technique is used to evaluate the radiation pattern characteristics of a given antenna configuration. The combination of these techniques has been found to be an efficient tool for studying these limited scan antennas. Thus thru the ray tracing program, a set of visual presentations can be obtained to aid the design of various antenna components. Once the antenna geometry is selected, the ray tracing program can also be used to generate the antenna aperture amplitudes and phases, from which the far field pattern can be calculated. More rigorously, the far field pattern can also be obtained by a consecutive set of diffraction integrations. It has been found that these two computations agree very well within the main beam region."
 "The success of a large phased array which has been in operational inventory for nearly six years is unique. The author suggests reasons for its relatively low cost development and maintenance. System concepts which have contributed most to the unprecedented \"blue-suit\" operation and maintenance are reviewed."
 "Electromechanical scanners such as an organ pipe with a sectoral horn output have proven themselves to be excellent devices for rapidly moving a radiating phase center through the focal region of a collimating reflector system thereby causing the far-field beam of the total antenna to be scanned. The configuration of the radiating outputs of the scanner channels are constrained by the following two independent and often conflicting requirements: firstly, the contour must conform to the scan are required by the particular antenna geometry, and secondly, the peak of the primary feed pattern should aim approximately toward a specified point at all scan angles. Since equal length channels fed in-phase radiate along the normal to their output contour, the scanner usually cannot meet both of these requirements simultaneously. A method is described in this paper for phasing each individual channel of the scanner so as to meet both requirements. Since the technique is indeed frequency dependent, a bandwidth analysis is performed. Both theoretical and experimental data are presented which indicate that the method is sufficiently broadband to find practical application. The implementation of the method described herein should allow antenna engineers much more flexibility in the design of scan arcs for electromechanically scanned antennas."
      "An idealized, coherent radar traveling at a speed,Vmaps a scatterer at a range, R and positionX(Xparallel to the direction of travel and measured from the axis of radar look) into an imaged position.X' = X + U(X)/(V/R)whereU(X)is the component of scatterer velocity along the line of sight. Since the number of scatterers\\rho(X), say, is conserved in this transformation.\\rho(X') = \\rho(X)\\frac{dx}{dx'}=\\frac{\\rho(X)}{1+(V/R)\\frac{-1dV}{dX}}Image patterns will thus be formed if either\\rho(X)orU(X)varies significantly withX. The former case is analogous to ordinary incoherent optical imaging but the latter is uniquely coherent imaging. In a two scale model incoherent imaging of sea waves results from tilting of Bragg Scatterers by the large wave and by modulation of the Bragg wave amplitude through straining by the large wave. The tilting and straining effects have a similar dependence on large wave slope but the latter has a much different windspeed and Bragg wavenumber dependence. Since, in the two scale case,U(X)is derived from the orbital velocity of the large wave it is quasi-periodic and can also produce a wave-line image by coherent imaging. We have recently examined a number of examples of coherent imagery of the sea for evidence of the above outlined mechanisms and find that we are able to isolate the characteristics of both coherent and incoherent type imagery."
  "In the upper microwave frequency range, the size of leaves is often larger than the operating wavelength. Hence, the scattering from foliage can be studied by approximating the individual leaf as a plane sheet of uniform thickness, random orientation, and arbitrary shape with the same electrical parameters as the leaf itself. The scattering cross section of a foliage environment (i.e., a volume distribution of randomly distributed leaves) can be found from the generalized Lommel-Seelinger bistatic cross section (GLSBS cross section) of the above leaf model. The GLSBS cross section is given here in an integral representation which takes into account the various polarization states of incident and scattered fields, the scattering geometry, the probability distribution of the leaf orientation, and the effect of both singly and doubly scattered radiation. As a part of the formulation, a convenient expression for the \"optical depth\" (or penetration depth) of the leaf medium is obtained. Numerical results, based on typical leaf parameters are obtained for the back scattering cross section, and show fairly good agreement with measured cross sections of green and desiccated soybeans at frequencies of 2 GHz, 10 GHz, and 35 GHz."
     "Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"A vehicle guideway is proposed as a communication channel for rapid transit systems. A numerical method for analyzing the guideway as a surface waveguide is developed and applied to a model of a rail augmented by a lossy dielectric strip resting on a lossy ground. The results for the complex propagation constant demonstrate the feasibility of this proposal."
"The problem of electromagnetic scattering by a planar array of metallic rectangular cylinders, shown in Figure 1, has long been the subject of considerable interest because of their relevance to the design of microwave polarizers, filters, reinforced radomes, power dividers, artificial dielectrics, etc. Although numerous analyses and experiments of the same or similar subject can be found in the literature [1-4], most of them deal with special cases in which the plane of incidence is either perpendicular or parallel to the edges of parallel plates. Furthermore, each of the different geometries has been treated individually, thus, formulation and computation procedures set up for one geometry cannot be readily adapted to solve another geometry of similar nature. In this paper, the scattered fields of a class of infinite grating problems such as shown in Figures 1 through 3 can be predicted accurately by one computer program. There is no restriction on the polarization or the direction of the incident plane wave. The space between the conducting plates may be filled with dielectric. If the grid spacing is less than one half free space wavelength, which is true for most practical engineering applications, the computation only involves a three by three complex matrix inversion which can be easily done with a small computer."
 "Sensors for remote sensing of ocean wave directional spectra are needed for global wave forecasting application. Backscatter from off-nadir, short pulse, radar-illuminated ocean waves gives the wave impulse response. Wave slope and wave length can be determined from the applitude time radar signature. Analysis of some preliminary wave spectral data taken with a 10 nanosecond aircraft mounted radar will be compared with wave spectra derived from laser prolifometer measurements."
"Microwave CW Doppler backscatter spectra from wind waves have been measured in a controlled laboratory environment at 4.283, 9.375, and 23.9 GHz. Independent variables and their ranges were: windspeed, 0 to 15 m/s; fetch, 1 to 10 m; and Bragg water wavelength, 7 to 0.7 cm. The use of parabolic antennas focused in the near field, and digital signal processing and averaging techniques has yielded considerable improvement in Doppler frequency resolution over that previously achieved[1]. The observed spectra contain considerable fine structure at intermediate and higher winds. At the intermediate winds, this is largely explainable on the basis of second order scattering and hydrodynamic effects[2]. The second order splitting is found to be given by\\Delta f=f_{d}[1-\\frac{c_{g}(k_{B}){c_{d}}]whereC_{g}(k_{B})is the group speed of the first order Bragg wave andf_{d}andC_{d}are the frequency and phase speed of the dominant wave.At higher winds a transition to two scale scattering is clearly discernible in the measured spectra. Crest speeds and optical slope spectra measurements were made to allow comparison of the measured spectra with a two scale model."
"A calculation is presented for the signal scattered by a corrugated surface due to a point source above the surface which transmits a short pulse of high frequency radiation. The analysis is based on the physical optics approximation. This problem is pertainent, although in a much simplified context, to problems of radar sensing of undulating surfaces, such as a swell dominated sea. In particular, this analysis leads to a definition of the criteria applicable to the use of a short pulse radar to sense the dominate wave structure of a sea."
"Antenna systems with isotropic radiation pattern will often be required for aircraft, rockets, and satellites. However, for characterizing the \"roundness\" or better the \"isotropy\" of the pattern, which is the most important factor of such an antenna, there is no weldle fined number, as we have the gain for directive antennas. In many cases, e.g. in telemetry systems, a deep, but very narrow minimum in the pattern of the on-board antenna does not affect the radio link condiserably. Therefore, the deepest minimum cannot be used for characterizing such a pattern by one numerical value."
   "Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Recent applications of millimeter waves will be described. These include high data rate communications, low altitude radar, obstacle avoidance, imaging and fog penetration, radiometry and radiometric imaging. The state-of-the-art of solid-state devices from 10-300 GHz will also be discussed. To reduce costs, which are a significant problem, several approaches to millimeter wave ICs are presently being pursued and will be compared."
"LSI chip area and design time, reduced by improving automatic layout programs and by combining them with interactive refining techniques, will be discussed. Packing density of layouts has been found to be at least equal to that of manual designs."
"Today, CACD can be cost-effective in IC design. Simulation capabilities and modeling provisions of several widely available programs will be compared. Examples from linear and digital circuit design will be offered to illustrate typical results, costs and difficulties."
"JFETs, as photosensitive elements, offer gain and non-destructive readout; additionally switching transients and attenuation by parasitic capacitances can be eliminated. A 5 × 5 array, using a double punch-through a resetting method, will be described."
"The history and present status of millimeter-wave communications systems in Japan will be reviewed and device development activities presented. The development of optical communication devices will also be discussed. Systems to be discussed include a 23-km link operating in the 40-80 GHz range through one waveguide with a capacity of 300,000 telephone channels."
"A flash-firing monolithic IC capable of automatic sequencing and skipping previously fired or open bulbs will be described. Device consists of five power cells, each containing a pair of Darlington-connected power transistors operating in the emitter-follower mode."
"A lumped-circuit class-C amplifier operating at a center frequency of 2.8 GHz, and developing 75-W output at 6.1-dB gain with 18.7% efficiency, will be described."
"A simple power-combining and mode-suppressing technique for direct paralleling of packaged IMPATT diodes will be described. Experiments at 4 and 6 GHz using three diodes in parallel have resulted in power outputs of 21 W and 10 W, respectively."
"Experiments clarifying the features of the MTL structure contributing to current gain and circuit delay will be described and conclusions for the design of optimum structures offered."
"A monolithic integrated crosspoint switch matrix for digitalized video signals combining CML gates with holding circuits to supply currents only to the necessary crosspoints will be described."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"PCCDs, which have been found to offer >99.99% high charge-transfer efficiency, >100 MHz operating frequency, high charge handling capability and real zero operation, extending the range of CTD applications, will be described. Circuit innovations will be presented."
 "Fiber optical transmission systems are potential competitors with conventional wire, coaxial cable and waveguide facilities in virtually all sectors of the communication network. They are attractive because glass fiber optical waveguides are relatively inexpensive, have miniature cross section, are strong and flexible and can transmit broadband signals with low distortion. This presentation will review the technology of fiber optical communications systems, citing the characteristics of fiber optical waveguides and their influence on system performance, device requirements, and transmitter and receiver systems design."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Since its introduction in the early 50s, the use of microwave radio for long distance transmission has grown, so that today it carries more telephone, television, and data communications than coaxial systems. The need for channel capacity is growing exponentially with time, and it is obvious that millimeter-wavelength communications will soon become a necessity. In the early 605, millimeter systems were considered impractical because they required closely-spaced high-cost repeaters using vacuum/tube amplifiers and oscillators. The discovery of IMPATT and Gunn diodes in the mid-60s made low-cost repeaters possible, and stimulated the development of practical millimeterwave systems. Japan has been particularly active in this area, and such systems are now in use. Even larger channel capacity is possible at optical frequencies. The discovery of low-loss optical fibers and solid-state optical sources and detectors makes optical communication systems economically feasible. Although the performance of experimental optical systems are presently inferior to millimeter systems, the technology is still in its infancy and significant progress is to be expected. increased activity is taking place in applying microwave techniques in non-military, non-communication systems."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Charge-coupled linear and area-image sensors have been built using a three-phase polysilicon approach with overlapping electrodes in three levels of polysilicon. The structure has been found to relax the demands on photolithography and shows extremely good transfer efficiency."
"A macromodel developed for use in IC simulators, which is capable of accurately modeling operational amplifier linear and nonlinear behavior, while reducing simulation costs by an order of magnitude, will be described."
"This paper will present a technique for simulation of large circuit configurations using circuit level modeling which converts integro-differential equations to simple algebraics. A configuration of 1300 interconnected FET logic circuits has been analyzed using this approach."
"An MOS photodiode readout structure, providing the basis for a self-scan image sensor with a spike noise level significantly less than conventional MOS transistor scan sensors, will be discussed."
"An integrated CAD facility for process-oriented circuit design will be described. Process, device and circuit simulators, which include multidimensional and high-level effects, comprise the facility, presently specialized for linear IC design."
"The dramatic increase in density of circuits on silicon chips has important and far-reaching implications for the design process, reliability, power, cost, manufacturing, and nature and functions of end products, based on LSI technologies. Today, 250 microinch (6μm) geometries are common; 150 microinch (4μm) geometries are in current commercial use. In the next ten years, LSI could be based on 25-60 microinch (0.6 - 1.5μm) geometries. Why, Wherein lies the value of such technologies? How will these technologies affect end products, the manner in which the products are designed, manufactured and tested, and the way people will use them?"
"The use of N-channel MOS technology has made it possible to develop chips with speed advantages relative to PMOS because of the higher mobility of electrons. This paper will describe a chip employing 5000 components, discuss a 90% reduction in execution time compared to PMOS designs, and also compare circuit features with existing P-channel approaches."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the foreword of the conference proceedings."
"An all solid-state, 10-ns pulsed-doppler radar for automobiles with a digital data processor will be described. The radar can predict car collision from speed data within 5 feet. System uses a transmitter with CW output of a Gunn oscillator in X band pulse modulated using two Schottky barrier diodes."
"A monolithic audio amplifier which can deliver 4-W output with a 9-V supply will be described. Features include built-in protection circuits, suppressed high-frequency noise and pop-free turn-on transient characteristics."
"A portable sonar system which uses a 10-W neon driver and circuitry incorporating one resonator for both a 200-kHz receiver and a pulse driven 12-W RF transmitter, will be described."
"A TRAPATT oscillator fabricated on a ferrite substrate and tuned by a magnetic field will be described. Pulsed-power outputs of 50 W at 2 GHz and 30 W at 4 GHz with a frequency tuning range of 100 MHz have been achieved."
"A series-connected transducer operating over a near octave bandwith in the 2-5 GHz range and requiring no external electrical matching has been designed and fabricated using photolithography and conventional ZnO transducer technology."
"A high-speed, high-density, TTL-compatible N-channel MOS logic structure will be described. The technique has made it possible to develop a logic gate operating on a 5-V supply with propagation delays of less than 5 ns at a 1.2 pJ power speed product; also TTL compatible MOS circuits which are as fast as TTL, but a factor of 5-8 times denser than TTL."
"A process, including the use of electron and ion beams, has made it possible to develop very fast and low-power switching circuits. Active transistors are one micron-gate silicon Schottky-barrier FETs."
"This paper will explore low-noise amplification of low frequency (0.1 Hz - 104Hz signals from sources which look like small capacitances (≈0.1 - 100 pF). Examples of sources include pyroelectric or piezoelectric crystal transducers, capacitor microphones and biological microelectrodes."
"A high-speed logic gate has been fabricated in GaAs. The circuit elements are Schottky diodes and MESFETs. The unloaded propagation delay is 60 ps with typical average power dissipation of 85 mW."
"A monolithic integrated crosspoint subsystem which includes 8 air-isolated SCR switches with associated switching and sensing circuitry on the central mother chip, will be discussed. Stringent telephone-system specifications have been achieved with negligible parasitic leakage and standby power."
"This paper will discuss a monolithic operational amplifier which utilizes an improved feedforward technique to compress the feedforward pole-zero pair and yield an experimentally-observed total unity gain acquisition time (slewing plus settling) of 600 ns to 0.01% with a 10-V input step, without compromise of the dc performance parameters or the use of complex compatible processing."
"A fast monolithic 10-bit, one, two or four-quadrant multiplying D/A converter has been developed. Using CMOS, thin film, low-power technology, the major error sources of earlier monolithic designs have been found to be avoided."
"A basic building block constructed with CCD and MNOS technologies will be described. The tap weights are analog and electrically reprogrammable to realize Fourier transformers, matched filters and correlators, and adaptive filters."
"In terms of the more urgent needs of society, medical electronics is a very promising area for application of integrated circuits technology. Chronically implantable systems, percutaneous sensors and transcutaneous sensor arrays present significant opportunities."
"A 180-V Si-gate MOS transistor using standard MOS LSI technology and capable of driving piezoelectric tactile displays has been developed. A novel theory predicts accurately walkout of the transistor's high-voltage junction breakdown."
"Delay time changes in a quartz acoustic surface-wave delay line subjected to mechanical stresses have been obtained as variations in frequency of a corresponding ASW delay line oscillator. A simple cantilever structure was found to have the largest sensitivity to stress. Applications to a force and pressure transducer will be described."
"Using nematic liquid crystal cells, a 128 × 128 matrix addressing display applicable to realtime optical signal processing and information display has been constructed. Theoretical and experimental results will be presented."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
 "This paper will present the performances of an experimental negative-resistance IMPATT amplifier designed for amplification of 80-GHz 806-Mb/s PSK signals."
 "Single chip MOS and MOS-bipolar linear circuits have been developed for op-amp, A/D and D/A and signal processing applications. Comparisons will be drawn between the use of MOS and bipolar transistors in monolithic design. Discussions will center on circuits and device performance levels obtainable now and in the future."
 "Summary form only given, as follows. The rapidity with which solid-state imaging technology has advanced through-charge transfer techniques places the burden on the product planners to match capability to requirement. As evidenced by the papers to be presented, charge transfer does not mean a single product, but rather a range of products using the same basic technology. It will therefore be necessary that the product planner understand the precise capabilities and limitations of the alternatives offered him. Further, he needs to know the advantages the solid-state product can offer in comparison to existing approaches. This is not a one-way responsibility, however, for the device designer must realistically describe his products performance. Parameters that are loosely applied by analogy to image tubes, such as MTF and dynamic range, must be precisely defined. A further consideration is the fact that there are application potentials beyond conventional imaging - optical character recognition, point-of-sale date reading, and target tracking, to mention a few - that have their own particular requirements. Matching the device to the requirement is possible, but requires objective discussion between device designers and product planners."
   "CCD signal processing is offering new methods for accomplishing many radar, communications and other signal sorting and analysis tasks at significantly lower cost than present digital techniques. The problem of discerning the appropriate device design for specific applications will be probed."
"The feasibility and practicability of insulated substrate, ion-implantation, MNOS and depletion-mode load, will be reviewed. How these technologies can be applied to P and N-channel and CMOS ICs will be discussed."
"Electronic components for automobiles, under development last year, are now in volume production, with seat belt interlock systems using bipolar or MOS technology and discrete or thick film hybrid technology applied to electronic ignition systems in which the challenges of severe reliability and electrical transient requirements are being met. The future use of more complex automobile electronics, automatic spark advance systems and the central processor, for example, which depend on cost effectiveness and availability of transducers, will be discussed."
"The combining of two-and three-terminal microwave solid-state devices in traveling wave, parallel and resonant structures to achieve high power oscillators and amplifiers will be discussed. Gain limitations, efficiency and failure modes will be treated."
"A monolithic 4-terminal precisioon temperature transducer/controller for use over a -55° to 125° C range which produces an outpdt voltage proportional to absolute temperature will be described. An op-amp and voltage reference are included on the chip."
"An all-PMOS monolithic 8-channel instrumentation system will be described. Each channel contains a linear amplifier, trigger, stable delay memory and control logic, and is optimized for processing signals from multiwire proportional chambers."
"The addition of a buried junction reference, beta compensation and an error-correcting feedback technique, used to develop a 0.1% accuracy transconductance multiplier, will be discussed."
"A simple, high-performance operational amplifier using an economical monolithic CMOS/bipolar process will be described, and circuit components, layout and performance discussed."
"An internally-compensated monolithic low-power (50mW) operational amplifier with slew rates of ±500 V/μs and settling times of 0.1% in 200 ns, using junction-isolated, bipolar technology, will be described."
"The paper will discuss a low-power, high-performance static RAM using a compact inverted transistor flip-flop memory cell. Small chip size and conventional processing have been found to yield an economical device suited for mainframe storage applications."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the recipients of the Outstanding contributed paper awards to the 1973 ISSCC."
"An ion-implant JFET-bipolar process developed for analog circuitry will be covered, citing applications for low-offset, wideband, fast-settling FET-input op-amp and a high-speed quad analog switch."
"A fast-operational amplifier using compatible PMOS/ bipolar processing and on-chip trimming techniques to achieve an input current of less than 10 pA, with offset voltage comparable to bipolar amplifiers, will be discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1974 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"A GHz asynchronous Counter has been developed using Isoplanar II. Latches have been operated in their race mode as toggle flip-flops, one-shot clock drivers and an on-chip fully-compensated Schmitt trigger."
"Logic functions of CHL have been achieved by switching the lateral injection current in PNP structures; NOR, NAND and complex gates have been realized. High functional density and high noise immunity, essential features of CHL, will be described."
"Integrated injection logic circuits incorporating oxide isolation for optimum speed power performance will be discussed, citing test data from I2L/MSI chips with either N+ or oxide isolation structures. A comparison of functional density, power-product, maximum clock rate and process complexity will be presented."
"A detailed numerical simulation of the charge-transfer process in buried-channel CCDs will be presented. The limitations on the device performance due to incomplete free charge transfer, device parameters and clocking waveforms will be discussed."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A small signal low-frequency measurement method to analyze the charge transfer mechanism in CCDs, occurring within time intervals between 1 ns and 1μs, using trapezoidal clock waveforms at frequencies below 1 MHz, will be covered."
"Lists the recipients of Outstanding Contributed Pap r<,Awards/Citations 1973 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference. "
"An FET input stage and feedforward compensation, combined to achieve an operational amplifier with drifts of 1 μV/°C, input currents of 25 pA and slew rates of 15 V/μs will be discussed."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A general-purpose correlator system has been designed using charge-transfer technology. Construction is modular so that correlation points can be increased by adding modules. Layout, circuit design and performance will be discussed."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A 128-bit color signal delay line for commercial TV, successfully operated by introducing a self-aligned electrode and an integrated low-noise analog sample holder to buried-channel charge-transfer devices, will be discussed."
"An X-band Gunn source, which is frequency stabilized to <2 parts in 104from -54° to +71°C, and which features a miniature temperature-compensated microwave discriminator and integrated control circuitry, will be discussed."
"This paper will describe a proposed CCD model introducing a nonlinear drift concept which disclosed that the applied voltage waveform to the last transfer electrode had great influence on transfer efficiency. Operation modes and structure will be cited."
"This paper will discuss a nonvolatile 2048-bit MNOS block-oriented RAM array with a serial clear/write or read/cycle data rate of over 2 MHz with less than 400-mW power dissipation."
"A static CMOS memory cell - 2.4 mil2- with high-rated load resistors using epitaxial silicon films on insulators has been developed. A 4k-bit memory integrated on a 12 mm2chip has been found to show a better overall performance than dynamic memories."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A 10,000-element imager has been evaluated for spectral sensitivity dynamic range, noise, dark current, MTF, blooming and operating speed. Operating techniques resulting in significantly improved performance will be described."
"Integrated injection logic found to afford lateral PNP transistors as current sources and multicollector NPN transistors as inverters will be discussed. Packing densities of 400 gates/mm2and speed power products of 0.13 pJ have been realized. Comparison with MOS logic will be offered."
"A monolithic IC for discrete 4-channel disc demodulators, including a complete carrier recovery system and audio matrixing circuitry, will be described. System partitioning, with respect to optimal performance and low cost, will be discussed."
"A 200-gate ECL master slice LSI suitable for computer mainframe logic will be described. Optimization has resulted in a 1.5-ns loaded delay.2.5-W power dissipation and compatibility with standard ECL components."
"The LOCMOS process and its ability to increase packing density and reduce cost of LSI CMOS circuits will be presented. A computer-aided layout system which can be used for wildlogic circuits using this technology will also be described."
"A recently completed 3\" MOS-LSI wafer processing facility will be described, including ion implantation, automatic wafer handling, automatic mask allignment and design automation aids. Emphasis will be on techniques useful in LSI design and processing."
"Miniaturization has been found to be the avenue to progress in digital electronics. Dielectric breakdown, thermal resistance and random fluctuations of impurity numbers can be identified as effects that will limit progress toward smaller dimensions."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A temperature-stable high-Q dielectric resonator, developed for microstrip circuits, and used to stabilize the microstrip oscillator, will be described."
"A monolithic sample/hold subsystem, including an integrated holding capacitor, which utilizes simultaneously fabricated bipolar transistors and silicon-gate FETs to achieve performance levels previously unattainable in a single chip design, will be discussed."
"Crystal-controlled watch circuits using CMOS/SOS technology will be discussed. The low-power high-speed features of this technology allows the use of less costly, high-frequency, thermally-stable, AT-cut quartz crystals. Circuits have operated at 1.4 V/4 MHz, consuming less than 12μW."
"A new technique for successive approximation A/D conversion has been developed. It is amenable to single-chip realization using MOS technology. The charge redistribution approach used requires but two grounded matched capacitors."
"The properties and potential of Baritt devices with regard to power output, efficiency and noise will be presented, The effects of doping and material parameters will be described, and experimental results on X-band devices offered."
"A circuit affording realization of a bandgap voltage reference will be presented, together with its application to a monolithic reference circuit."
"Realtime, non-invasive imaging of cardiac structures and other internal body organs, accomplished with an ultrasonic imaging system, will be discussed. The approach utilizes custom integrated circuits including high-voltage double diffused MOS transistors."
"A bipolar integrated linear-delta modulator that converts speech to 10-Mbit/s digital code will be described. The circuit uses a charge-parcelling integrator with 3-mV step size to achieve greater than 11-bit resolution."
"The design of 4 - 10 GHz and 6 - 12.4 GHz YIG-tuned transistor oscillators capable of minimum 12-dBm and 5-dBm output power, respectively, will be described. The harmonic content is at least 20-dB down."
 "Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The design, fabrication and testing of a 16 × 16 multiplier chip, will be described. The circuit contains 17,000 transistors and resistors on a 301 × 279-mil chip and does a multiplication in less than 350 ns."
"A developmental ion-implanted low-noise transistor has been used in a three-stage integrated amplifier. A noise figure of 3 dB has been achieved with a gain of 23 ± 0.7 dB across the design range of 3.1 - 3.5 GHz."
"Expanding industrial development and the growing demand for energy coupled with the need to insure protection of our natural environment has made it necessary to develop modeling techniques to predict the fate of pollutants discharged to our natural waters. A primary problem in developing mathematical models is the establishment of the important input parameters which are dependent upon physical ambient characteristics. One of the most difficult parameters to establish in the so called far-field modeling is the values for eddy diffusion coefficients. This paper is primarily concerned with discussing physical field monitoring techniques and the associated analysis required to establish both horizontal and vertical eddy diffusion coefficients for shallow coastal waters. Data obtained in several areas along the north-east Atlantic coast are used to develop diffusion coefficients. The results include analysis of dye tracer, drogue and continuous time aeries current measurement obtained concurrently with other physical oceanographic data. The lateral eddy diffusion coefficients based on the continuous dye data lie in the range of 102 cm2/sec to 105 cm2/sec. The horizontal eddy diffusion coefficients based on the drogue data indicates the same increasing trend from 10 cm2/sec to 104 cm2/sec over a three hour measurement period. The estimated eddy diffusion coefficients from the moored current meter data are within the range from 105 cm2/sec to 107 cm2/sec. The alongshore component of eddy diffusion coefficient from the current meter data is one order higher than the corresponding offshore component due to large scale fluctuations in the alongshore direction. The current circulation pattern in the near-shore region is generally characterized by the combination of rotary tidal currents, predominant alongshore current, and variable currents influenced by local wind and large scale flow system. Monte Carlo simulation of pollutant dispersion with characteristic values are shown as an example."
"A three dimensional dynamic simulation of an underwater towed system has been developed which can be used to address many of the important questions connected with the deployment and towing of underwater sonar devices. Evolving from an original analog computer simulation, it exists now in digital computer form and provides the flexibility needed for model expansion and portability of analysis. Data from the performance studies of two basic types of towed sonar systems (variable depth and linear array) are presented to demonstrate the usefulness of and the range of information available from the simulation prior to the conduct of sea trials, and the correlation that is possible between predictive computer data and trials data after the conduct of sea trials."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: acoustic instrumentation; buoys; telemetry; sea ice physics; fish monitoring; fish counting; manned submersibles; diving technology; mechanical systems; pollution monitoring; ship behavior; ship handling; tidal measurement, and; tidal power."
"Classification of ice according to its structural characteristics such as the size and form of the crystal and its optical orientation has become widely used among researchers in recent time. On the basis of crystal morphological characteristics, all natural ice is divided by its crystal structure into prismatic, fibrous, and isometric (granular) types. Each of such types is divided by the character of development of its faces (surface complexity) into regular granular (hypidiomorphic) and irregular granular (allotriomorphic), and by crystal sizes into fine, meso and macro granular. A disadvantage of this classification is that it reflects only structural ice features, mainly, crystal morphology, without any genetic foundation. With such an approach some ice formed in different hydrometeorological conditions and having similar crystal structure can be referred to as one type. For instance, infiltrated ice and sludge ice. A pure genetic classification also does not meet practical problems because it divides all ice only by conditions of their formation: congelation* ice congelation-underwater ice*, infiltrated ice, etc. Such a division of ice does not take into account its structural features, the difference in which is especially great in congelation and congelation- underwater ice formations."
"Most sonar systems determine the bearing of an incoming signal either by scanning a beam through space or by examining the outputs of several preformed beams. Signal bearing may also be determined by operating on the set of relative signal amplitudes derived from four or more hydrophone arrays. So long as the set of relative responses is uniquely related to signal bearing, direction may be determined unambiguously. A simple form of array group leading to a unique solution in three dimensions is a set of three mutually perpendicular acoustic dipoles plus an omnidirectional sensor. By correlating each of the dipole outputs with the omnidirectional output and normalizing, the direction cosines of the received signal bearing are obtained. In the active sonar case, the region under observation may be illuminated by a pulsed source. The direction cosines may then be multiplied by range and applied to a pair of cathode ray tubes to show the plan view and side elevation for the region. Since system performance will be degraded by the occurrence of multiple echoes within one range resolution cell, the system is susceptible to adverse reverberation conditions. The receiver will function over a very wide bandwidth (greater than a decade), however, and thus range resolution may be made very great. The system may also be made 'foolproof' under conditions permitting all significant targets to carry transponders. As such, the system may be quite useful in observing or supervising underwater diving operations."
"BO'SUN comprises hardware and software for generating, recording, and processing high resolution sonar data to produce contoured depth charts in depths to 2,000 feet. The hardware includes a multibeam acoustic depth sounder, CRT display, digital printer, and digital magnetic tape recorder which logs both sonar and navigation data. The software permits shore processing of the magnetic tape on a conventional general purpose computer and digital plotter to develop annotated contour charts with selectable scale and contour interval. The 21 beam version of BO'SUN has a lateral sweep of 105 and logs 11 soundings on each transmission. The magnetic tape records the sonar slant range, time, roll, heading, and navigation range-range coordinates. The software computes exact position and depth for each sounding, correcting for sound velocity, refraction, roll, tide, compass deviation, ship's coordinates and location of transducer relative to ship's navigation center. There is provision for editing, averaging, interpolating, and smoothing. Survey runs of any geometry including overlapping swaths are han-died by sort and merge routines which collect all data available at each grid point. A sophisticated navigation editor has been developed to cope with erratic electromagnetic propagation. A plot of ship's track can be run before and after editing."
"Autoprobe is a general purpose autonomous observational platform with the capability of making Lagrangian measurements of any depth dependent property. Autoprobe can change its displacement in response to internal commands as desired, pneumatically forcing fluid into or out of a bladder. An electronic control system generates the commands from the temperature and pressure measurements, utilizing proportional control with rate feedback. The control system has been programmed to operate in the following modes: (1) to stabilize at a constant pressure, (2) to follow a constant temperature, (3) to make vertical excursions, and (4) to respond to remote control. Acoustic Telemetry is utilized in the instrument yielding navigational information as well as temperature and pressure data. Hydrophones are used with a shipboard recorder for tracking the Autoprobe, enabling the operator to monitor Autoprobe's performance. Autoprobe has a multi-level safety system allowing it to blow ballast on a time signal or jettison weight if it goes too deep, if a desired time is reached, or if an acoustic command is received from the surface. Autoprobe has been used as an observational platform for a total of 44 dives."
"The instruments used for the oceanographic measurement should be designed in consideration of the stability for the change of the parameters such as ambient temperature, pressure and any other environmental conditions. Furthermore, it is difficult to keep the voltage of power source and the characteristics of the components on circuit boards stable during the long time in marine environment. Then, the stable method is necessary. \"Dual slope integration analog to digital converter\" has a function of division, so that the fluctuation occurring in two integrands in the same ratio by the above causes can not appear in final result. Therefore, to take advantage of the effect, we set the reference output in each sensor circuit which has the fluctuation in the same ratio as the measurement output. If these two outputs of sensors are treated as the inputs of the \"Dual slope integration analog to digital converter\", it is possible to improve the accuracy of the measurement system. Regarding the sensors designed and fabricated on the basis of that principle, the experiment proved that the principle is available to improve the accuracy of measurement for many kinds of fluctuation. Further, we confirmed that these sensors functioned continuously with good stability in marine environment."
"The system has been designed to transmit water pressure data from the sea floor to the surface as an interval between two pulses. Upon acoustic query from the surface the bottom unit was designed to respond with the data readout and to initiate the taking of a new pressure reading. The first unit was installed under Ocean Station Papa (Lat.50N., Long. 145 W.) in a cooperative program with Dr. John Garrett of the Canadian Department of Environment. Due to an unforeseen coincidence the bottom unit became \"self-querying\" upon emplacement; thus it operated continuously which greatly shortened the battery life of the system. During the two months the system, was functional data were recorded at the surface mostly during daylight hours. Data for a tidal analysis were obtained but no tsunami occurred during the recording space, The second unit has been emplaced under Ocean Station Papa which should provide data complementing the four Canadian seamount tide stations."
"This paper describes a prototype tide gauge capsule intended for deep sea use. Details are given on the mechanical and electronic design, the types of sensors used, and method of laying and retrieving the capsule. The gauge has been deployed twice in the past year and the results obtained on these occasions are discussed."
"Icebergs of the Northwest Atlantic originate for the most part from glaciers of Western Greenland. After calving, these bergs drift north, then west and are finally picked up by the south-flowing Labrador current. Many icebergs drift ashore during their passage to the Grand Banks, finally melting in the Gulf Stream. These drifting masses of ice, many of which are in excess of one million tons, (equivalent to a block 150 ft. wide, 600 ft. long, 100 ft. above water and 400 ft. draft) present two main areas of concern to the offshore drilling operators: (a) the possibility of a direct collision of the moving iceberg with a drilling rig or fixed structure, thus requiring knowledge of the iceberg movement and behaviour to enable avoidance action to be taken. (b) damage to installations near the water sediment interface through scouring from bottom dragging icebergs thus requiring a knowledge of the interaction of the iceberg and sea floor sediment and the sediment strength characteristics. To try to answer these problems, icebergs have formed a major part of the Ocean Engineering Research Program at Memorial University of Newfoundland over the past four years. Many aspects such as stability, and grounding have towing, drift shape been considered. This paper describes a laboratory phase of the iceberg grounding studies currently in progress."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Within recent years the conflict between the growing demand for energy and the need for environmental protection has been felt the hardest in coastal regions. This paper is primarily concerned with the predictive technique of pollutant dispersion in the shallow coastal water. The primary problem in mathematical modeling is an establishment of the important parameters which are tightly coupled with physical ambient characteristics. One of the most cumbersome but difficult problem in the so-called far field modeling is the issue of eddy diffusion. This paper will present new techniques and results obtained in the various areas of North-East Atlantic coast. The results include analysis of dye tracer, drogue and continuous time series current measurement with other concurrent physical oceanographic data. The theoretical backup and experimental verification will be discussed."
"In comparison with the direct use of wind energy exploitation of wave energy offers great advantages. By the interaction of wind and free water surface an energy concentration takes place. Wind energy which is interchanged through wide surface areas of the oceans is stored in sea waves as a mechanical oscillation. A simple system will be described which enables the conversion of this energy of oscillation into high pressure water and electric power. It is possible to use this wave-driven generator for power supply of buoys for 1 kW or more as well as for big stationary power plants of several hundred kilowatts of electric power. The function consists in the transformation of a big volume of the low pressure water of the waves into a small volume of corresponding high pressure water which can be stored in hydraulic accumulators or in elevated water basins. Due to the periodic pressure changes in the inside of the submerged wave energy generator a piston of large diameter is moved up and down thereby driving a much smaller pump piston. With a diameter ratio between the two pistons of 2 m to 0.4 m the wave pressure is increased 25 times. An effective wave altitude of 2 m therefore will provide a water pressure of 50 m which with a wave period of 7 s easily can be converted into 1 kW of electric power by a Pelton turbine which is directly coupled to the shaft of a generator. The efficiency of such a small wave-driven hydroelectric power plant is about 80%. A basic requirement for operating the wave-driven hydroelectric generator with a high total efficiency over long periods consists in low friction seals for the pistons which additionally must be air-tight. A special type of rolling diaphragm seal accomplishes these requirements. The seals can be used for large diameters up to 20 m and more and don't require a smooth surface so that pistons and cylinders can be made of fibre-reinforced epoxy or ferro concrete. A prototype of the hydroelectric wave generator for buoys of 1 m in diameter, with an electric power of 500 W, is now in construction. If possible, first test results will be reported."
"On the basis of visual observations and underwater photography it was stated that cod (Gadus morhua L.), haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) and roundnose grenadier (Macrourus rupestris Gunn.) had been concentrated in front of the net part of bottom and midwater trawls and the density of fish distribution in this zone is in direct linear dependence to that of their distribution under the environmental conditions. In contrast to fish, the northern deep-water shrimp (Pandalus borealis Kroüger) do not aggregate in front of a trawl aperture, that is due to some specific features of their response to the different parts of the bottom trawl rig. The data obtained can be used for assessment on absolute density of concentrations of bottom commercial objects and fishing efficiency of trawls."
"This paper reports results of research at Harwell on thermal energy conversion, which began in 1966 and has led to the successful development of an efficient heat engine/alternator system capable of delivering several tens of watts of alternating current with an efficiency much greater than that of alternative methods. This system has no rotating or sliding surfaces, so requires no lubrication, and is believed to be capable of operating continuously for many years without wear or need for attention. It is capable of using heat from a variety of sources and is self-starting on application of heat. Three electrically-heated research machines have been built and run, the third delivering an output of 27 watts a.c. with an efficiency of 13.5%. Two development machines have been built and are running, one propane-heated and delivering 31.75 watts a.c, and one with a radiation shield for operation with a radioisotope heat source, which delivers 18 watts a.c. Both give an overall efficiency of 10% including all losses from the heat sources."
"-The natural frequencies of a laminated anistropic pipe and the closed form forced response to bending forces have been obtained by using Fourier series expansion in conjunction with Galerkin's method. Numerical results for the dimensionless frequencies are presented for the case of an empty pipe, one that is filled with a fluid, one that is surrounded by a fluid, and one that is filled and surrounded by a fluid. The isotropic case based on the Flügge shell equations is shown for comparison purposes. It was found that the presence of the fluid substantially decreases the natural frequencies."
"The differential equations that describe a one dimensional model of a system of tide channels are the same as those describing a lossless electrical transmission line. Closed channels, open channels, changes in width and depth can be simply described using a mathematical model of a transmission line and calculations aided by use of the Smith Chart. A simple model of the tide channels of the North West Passage is presented as an example of the technique."
"During the past two years it has been determined that submersibles can be used for cable burying work. The submersible mounted jet system has been used to bury cable and repeaters in a variety of bottom conditions and in water depths exceeding 600 meters. The purpose of this paper is to report on cable burying operations carried out by International Hydrodynamics, on the Canadian Continental Shelf off Nova Scotia during the Summer of 1973, using the manned submersible, PISCES V. The submersible support vessel MV HUDSON HANDLER is also described."
"The paper addresses the question of preliminary design of monitoring systems for use in the enforcement of water quality standards in estuaries. Central concepts of preliminary design first developed for use in the uni-directional flow, one-dimensional portions of river basins are extended to the case of two-dimensional, vertically well- mixed estuaries."
"This paper is one of three from NASA Langley Research Center. Together they describe a program to study pollution transport and waves in the Coastal Zone. This paper discusses the approach, the instrumentation, and the results to date of both remote and in situ sensing research at the NASA Langley Research Center. Three areas in remote sensing are singled out: The synoptic mapping of phytoplankton \"blooms\" by remote sensing of chlorophyll that was calibrated from in situ measurements, the development of a Multichannel Ocean Color Sensor (MOCS) that was used to map acid dumping, and the development of an Ocean Surface Parameter Remote Sensing System for aircraft with a potential for satellite operation. The latter system consists of an S-band radiometer, an L-band radiometer, a laser profilometer, a foam detector, and an infrared radiometer to measure temperature, salinity, winds, and wave conditions. In the in situ water measurements area, early results of water currents are shown that were determined from tracking a drifting buoy that can be tracked from shore, by aircraft, or from a satellite such as the French EOLE Satellite."
"Non-linear sonar allows high resolution sidelobe-free bathymetric surveillance over an exceptionally large frequency bandwidth. When one fixed and one frequency-scanned channel are transmitted simultaneously, mixing in the water produces a low, scanned, difference frequency signal. In a system being developed, the technique produces an ocean floor reflection signature with more than a decade bandwidth. The difference-frequency source level varies in an extremely non-linear manner with both frequency and primary-frequency power. This variation must be known in order to correctly interpret the frequency-scanned returned signals. Consequently a source level prediction model was developed. In addition to predicting the frequency variation of source level, the model reveals an optimum primary frequency power at which the non-linear conversion efficiency is maximum. The benefits and limitations of operation near the optimum power are discussed, together with the predicted signal-to-noise ratio versus secondary frequency, for various ocean depths."
"Since 1961, Sandia Laboratories has had a continuing program on projectile penetration of in-situ earth materials. This program has resulted in a new technology, called terra-dynamics, which has been used in a variety of military and peaceful applications. During the past four years this technology has been extended to include the penetration of sea ice. Three test programs have been conducted in the Arctic in the development of an ice penetration technology and of various ice penetrator systems. Empirical equations developed during the earth penetration program were modified, based on the results of the Arctic tests, to predict the depth of penetration in ice. When the penetrator configuration, impact velocity, and ice properties are known, the depth of penetration (or maximum ice thick- ness which can be perforated) may be predicted with an accuracy of about ±15?. During the Arctic test programs approximately 25 penetrator configurations were drop tested, and all were instrumented to measure deceleration during ice penetration. From the deceleration records, the hardness and thickness of the ice were remotely determined."
"During the past ten years Bendix, in conjunction with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, has been developing acoustic fish counters. Early development included doppler systems which evolved into the present day, bottom-mounted, upward-facing counters for enumeration of migrating river fish which range in size from 50 mm to 1,000 mm. The present systems which are undergoing continuing development, have demonstrated accuracies as high as 95 percent compared to visual counts on migrating sockeye salmon (Onchorhynchus nerka). In 1970, a biomass counter was developed to enumerate downstream migrating schools of fingerling salmon smolt that average 100 mm in length and 50 fish to the pound. Three such systems are currently in use in Alaska and calibrations performed by Alaska's netting have shown long term accuracies better than 96 percent. A recent development is an acoustic smolt counter used in conjunction with a fyke net tunnel. Initial results show great promise for this system. Development of a biomass herring counter for the east coast of the United States is eminent. This system will count upstream migrating herring and automatically convert the biomass input to actual numbers of fish which will be displayed on a digital readout."
"The natural frequencies of a laminated orthotropic pipe and the closed form forced response to bending forces, have been obtained by using Fourier series expansion in conjunction with Galerkin's method. Numerical results for the dimensionless frequencies are presented for the case of an empty pipe, one that is filled with a fluid, one that is surrounded by a fluid, and one that is filled and surrounded by a fluid. The isotropic case based on the Flügge shell equations is shown for comparison purposes. It was found that the presence of the fluid substantially decreases the natural frequencies."
"This paper describes the advantages of using a narrow- and a wide-beam acoustic transducer in systems for estimating fish abundance. In the technique considered, the acoustic pulse is transmitted with a narrow beam and the echo is received on both the narrow and wide beams. The signals received at the two transducers can be used to determine the acoustic scattering cross section of the fish. The mean value of the acoustic scattering cross section can be used to evaluate the scale factor needed by echo integrators to obtain an absolute abundance estimate. The outputs of the two transducers can also be used to control the sampling volume in an echo counting system."
"The fundamental technology needed for large-scale electricity generation from tidal energy has long been available, but the execution of such projects presented problems of scale which became practicable only relatively recently. In the last few years, changed circumstances and the continuing refinement of schemes put forward have brought the prospective costs of tidal energy utilization into the area of serious commercial interest. The objective must be to achieve the most economical result which calls for an appreciation of the range of alternatives open, and of the important variables. Equally, there is need for proper definition and understanding of terms like \"economical\" and \"optimum\", as applicable in different contexts. The fluid and uncertain future prospect for power generation costs is warning enough that as criteria and methods of commerce and engineering have changed in the recent past, still more will they change in the future."
"The role which tidal energy was assumed to play as fuel displacement energy in the most recent study of Tidal Power in the Bay of Fundy is challenged. The cost information derived during that study is then used to demonstrate that the economic analysis was quite inappropriate. It is proposed that any future economic comparisons must be made with full recognition of the advantages of capital intensive schemes."
"The TWL in-situ tide gauge was designed by Tides and Water Levels of the Marine Sciences Directorate. It employs a single stainless steel capsule containing a differential potentiometric pressure transducer, temperature sensor, electrically operated valve and associated reference pressure system, electronics clock and timer, and a servo-operated Ott punch tape recorder along with a dry cell battery pack. Two gauges were tested on December 1971 outside Victoria Harbour at a depth of about 60 meters. Both the temperature and pressure were sampled at hourly intervals. The amplitude and phase of the tidal constituent computed from the data agree well with those obtained from the permanent gauge at Victoria. The design of the instrument was then modified to increase its reliability and depth capability. Three gauges were tested near Chebucto Head outside Halifax Harbour in May 1973. In this test, the sampling rate of the temperature was set at once a day while the pressure was once every hour. The differences in amplitude and phase of tidal constituents obtained from different gauges were larger than the results of the Victoria Test. This is probably caused by the inadequate sampling rate of the temperature data."
"1. Morphological structure and state (i.e. temperature, salinity) of drifting sea ice are discussed. 2. The results of laboratory and natural investigations of UHF electromagnetic characteristics ( and tg ) of drifting sea ice are given. The estimate of electromagnetic contrast on ice-sea water boundary is given. 3. The results of experiments on radio echo sounding of drifting sea ice from aircraft are presented."
"A deep sea recording capsule carrying two quartz-crystal pressure sensors and two quartz-crystal temperature sensors was operated in 2.2 km depth off Brest during November-December 1973 as part of an inter national deep sea tide gauge intercalibration experiment. The dual instrumentation provides information for in situ evaluation of instrument calibrations. Differences in the recordings give estimates of the instrumental noise spectra. Instrumental noise of the temperature-corrected pressure sensor was found to be 10-20 db below the sea level continuum spectrum at frequencies below 0.2 cph. At higher frequencies the pressure signal-to-noise ratio decreased to 0-6 db at 3 cph (the Nyquist). The temperature sensor noise spectrum was everywhere 20-40 db below the signal spectrum. Problems associated with using dual instrumentation to evaluate sensor performance are discussed."
"The tides and currents section, Marine Sciences Branch, Pacific Region, has taken delivery of ten aanderaa model TG lA water level gauges. These gauges are of new design, and in their first application will form the nucleus of a study of tides and storm surges in the Beaufort Sea. The gauges will be placed through the ice in April, 1974, and recovered and replaced in the beginning of the ice-free season. This report will treat problems with placement and recovery of the gauges, and a first time evaluation of the effectiveness of the gauge."
"A new form of underwater weather station has been designed for long term recording with great reliability and low power consumption.The novelty of the instrument lies in its use of a non-destructive,non-volatile magnetic memory. The original instrument was designed as a tide gauge capable of recording deep-sea tides on the ocean floor for at least a year's duration. Analog data from sensors is multiplexed to an A-D converter with no real limit to the number of sensors that could be so attached. The control program for the operation and cycling of the device is resident in a separate, non-volatile semiconductor memory.This control memory can be re-programmed on a specially designed programmer. Great flexibility of function can be achieved by using this programmable feature. A crystal controlled clock gives the time basis for operation and can be set on the front panel as days, hours, minutes and seconds and can be stored in the plated wire memory as a data record. A built-in teletype converter and D-A converter are included in the underwater device to facilitate communication."
"Two self-contained tide gauge prototypes have been constructed and successfully tested. The gauges use a Vibrotron absolute pressure transducer to sense water pressure to an equivalent resolution of two millimeters from a maximum depth of 1000 meters. The power supply and recording system are adequate for installations of up to one year at a five minute sample interval. High resolution pressure measurements (<;1cm) are limited in accuracy by the technique for applying temperature corrections to transducer data. The gauges are presently installed in the Arctic Ocean."
"Summary form only given. The effective use of tidal power by a typical electrical power system requires energy storage to retime the input to meet load demand. The cost of tidal power generation is relatively high and cannot be economically absorbed by the power system as secondary energy. Its constitution is more valuable when delivered at intermediate load factors. Traditional modes of \"retiming\" have usually involved hydro-electric pumped storage either within the tidal development itself or in separate facilities on the system. Compressed air storage has more recently been considered as a possible alternative. The paper reviews an interesting concept where the storage function is compared with the power generation through direct compression of air by the hydraulic turbine drive. Comparative costs of alternative retiming arrangements for typical tidal power developments in the Bay of Fundy are provided."
"1. A mechanism for the appearance of bending vibrations of the ice cover in the presence of dynamic interaction of ice floes during hummocking is suggested. 2. An equation defining the pressure in the surface wave propagating in the near-to-ice water layer in the presence of bending vibrations of ice cover is obtained. 3. The validity of the suggested hypothesis is confirmed by satisfactory agreement of experimental data with results of calculations of pressure in the near-to-ice water layer based on vertical displacement of the ice cover undergoing flexural vibration."
"Long distance communications over the oceans can only be accomplished with H.F. radio or Satellites. Satellite system costs are extremely high and no significant cost reductions are being projected over the next 10-20 years. H.F. Communications systems however can be very economical but usually exhibit poor reliability and often less than desirable quality. This paper describes an automatic H.F. radio system giving greatly improved communications reliability. This improved reliability is achieved through the use of real time information of signal and interference levels on each channel allocated to a particular H.F. radio network. Automatic Selective Calling is also incorporated this eliminating manual calling and monitoring requirements."
"A rapid increase in demand for larger capacity communication systems in Japan in recent years has brought the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation to develop a new offshore microwave transmission system. This new system will be remarkable in that it is the first attempt to adopt the combination of coaxial cables and microwave transmission among onshore and offshore stations. Coaxial cables of large transmission capacity have an advantage of sending electric waves for a long distance over deep waters where disturbance or damage to the cables due to various human activities in the sea is not seriously expected. On the other hand, in the shallow waters of continental shelves, coaxial cables are apt to be considerably exposed to danger of being damaged and cut off by anchors and dragnets of fishing boats, etc. To solve the problem in shallow waters, an offshore floating radio relay station should be installed at the edge of continental shelves, by heavy anchor chains, to receive microwave transmission from an onshore station and to transmit it to the next offshore station, or vice versa, through coaxial cables connecting the offshore station network. The antenna to receive the microwave signal on the floating station is automatically adjustable to keep the correct direction in spite of motions of the offshore station in waves. On October, 1973, a full scale test station was installed in 200 metres of water at a location five kilometers offshore of Izu-Ohshima Island off Tokyo. This test station is 135 m tall and afloat in an upright condition with 100 m draft. Its mooring system consists of four sets of 3 inch chain of 600 meters in length to keep the station in a workable condition in max. 15 meter waves and 60 m/see wind. The test has just started and will he continued for two years. It is the intent of this paper to describe the outline of the designing and construction of the newly developed offshore floating radio relay station."
"The non uniform thickness of sea ice sheets creates regions of isostatic shear imbalance. For assumed ice thickness variation, the resulting bending stresses are determined sufficient to cause cracking. The ice sheet is modeled as a floating elastic plate with constant flexural rigidity. Variable thickness is obtained by representing the bottom surface as a sine wave. Upper and lower bound curves are obtained for the amplitude of the bottom surface variation versus ice breaking strength."
"Moored horizontal cable spans have been supported at mid-water depths by subsurface buoys and floats (Ocean Telescope, Atlantic Test Bed). These large arrays require a ship fitted with specialized cable handling equipment and must be deployed slowly due to the large number of floats that must be attached to the cables. For some applications, the high cable tensions required to resist deflections are not needed and the horizontal distribution of sensors can be achieved by use of a buoyant cable moored at each end. This type of array can be deployed from a small ship and does not require heavy cable handling machinery due to its light weight and smaller size. Because of the sensitivity of the \"soft\" array to ocean currents, the prediction of array deflections is quite important. Analysis methods to compute array configurations with transverse and longitudinal currents are shown."
"The single-point mooring of a buoy provides an unmanned instrument station for many purposes. The motion and survival of such a system under normal and severe environmental conditions are of great importance in its design. The paper describes a mathematical model devised to simulate on a digital computer the dynamic response of single point moorings of surface and submerged buoys. The essential features of the two-dimensional, time-domain analysis are summarized. The main features of a \"breaking sea\" model developed for effective simulation of the seaway are presented. The general system configuration and the basic assumptions involved are described, which clearly indicate the restrictions imposed on the practical applications of the program. Applications to date include spherical buoys in two degrees of freedom in currents, sinusoidal waves and breakers. A brief discussion on the results of a few selected runs is included."
"The dynamics of a taut-line mooring suspended by two series (in-line) buoys is studied. Both monochromatic and pseudo-random surface wave models are used as forcing functions. Nonlinearities in hydrodynamic drag and cable elasticity are treated and motions are restricted to two dimensions in a vertical plane. Numerical solutions, based on a previous work for single buoys, were performed on a digital computer to study the effects of mooring line elastic properties and surface wave models on buoy system response. Comparisons of motion and tension responses between a relatively stiff (steel) line, approximated as a linear elastic element, and a compliant (nylon) line, requiring a nonlinear elastic description, are made. The mooring line material comparison permits the selection of the more stable platform mooring while the comparison of responses to both monochromatic and pseudorandom forcing functions allows the evaluation of wave model efficiency as a design tool (i.e., model realism versus solution time). It has been found that, within the limitations of this analysis and for the particular system parameters studied, the use of a monochromatic input provides a conservative and more efficient model than a pseudo-random input for both nylon and steel-moored system response. Furthermore, the steel-moored system, and in particular its lower buoy, provides the most stable underwater instrument platform. In all cases dynamic components of mooring line tension are negligible."
"A system is described which acoustically telemeters data from a bottom-mounted recording tide gauge to a moored surface buoy and from there makes the data available via a VHF radio-telemetry link to a survey ship within a 25 to 35 km radius. The system can be easily deployed from the survey ship and enables tidal data to be obtained during the course of a survey, particularly in areas where the installation of near-shore tide gauges is impractical. Parameters of the tide gauge, the acoustic transmitter and receivers the radio telemetry equipment and the shipboard readout equipment are presented. Testing and use of the system is discussed."
"A simple but accurate wave transducer has been developed for measuring waves on inland and coastal waters, consisting of a tunnel diode oscillator, using an open transmission line to sense the water-level. The output signal is a pulse train with a period linearly proportional to the length of transmission line above the water surface."
"A major new ship handling research capability will be embodied in the Maritime Research Simulator now being built by the Maritime Administration. Human engineering research related to ship handling will be possible to a degree not previously available. The relationships of operator action, ship dynamics, instrumentation, bridge crew duty assignments, and the outside world environment (including harbor configuration, visibility, other ship traffic, wind, tides, and current) can be evaluated. Simulation permits experimentation under controlled operating conditions, including: simulated hazardous conditions, convenient scheduling, and quality controlled data collection. Simulation also permits conducting experiments in conditions which would not be feasible in the real world. For example, ships not yet built may be \"operated\", ship channels may be rerouted, aids to navigation may be repositioned, unconventional traffic rules may be placed in effect, high speed ships may be mixed with slower traffic, relocation of piers, docks, or shore terminals may be speedily arranged. In all these circumstances, the relationship of bridge and supporting accommodations to operator capabilities and limitations may be evaluated. Larger, less maneuverable ships, increased ship traffic density in and around major seaports, and long cruise durations are all thought to be factors in the high incidence of marine accidents. Ship handling accidents, i.e., strandings, groundings, and collisions, are the most frequent types of accidents and are a prime object of research to be conducted in the Maritime Research Simulator. In addition to problems in safety and reliability of cargo delivery, the simulator can be used in solving other maritime problems such as those related to harbor design, ship handling efficiency, new or proposed shipboard equipment, regulatory matters, and vessel traffic systems."
"This work concerns the generation of force from a peripheral nozzle at the front of an aerodynamic shaped body by the utilisation of the Coanda effect. It is found that the manipulation of the jet (envelope) distribution over the body surface may be manipulated to control the attitude and direction of the body in a water environment. Tests indicate that such devices have advantages over existing methods in manoeuvrability and in the reduction of drag."
"Two mathematical models of M2tidal behaviour in the Bay of Fundy are described. The first is a detailed numerical one of the Bay and the Gulf of Maine, with realistic depths, extending out to the edge of the continental shelf. Good reproduction of the existing tidal regime is achieved. Use of the model to estimate the effects of permeable and impermeable barriers, located in the upper reaches of the Bay, is discussed. The second tidal model, based on analytical solutions, employs a simple representation of the Bay consisting of a system of frictionless channels. In this, the tidal perturbations introduced by a barrier placed across the entrance to Minas Basin are determined and the effect of different open-sea radiation conditions on the results investigated. The numerical and analytical studies are complementary, jointly aimed at assessing and understanding the influence on the tides of possible hydro-electric installations in the head waters of the Bay."
 "The Department of Oceanography at Texas A&M University has been engaged, for the last 4 years, in a project to study hydrocarbon seepage on the bottom and beaches, and in the water column in the Gulf of Mexico and contiguous areas (Figure 1), as well as at the surface in the Caribbean and the Gulf (Figure 2). This project has been funded during this period, by as many as 14 major oil companies and the National Sea Grant program of NOAA. Major results are presented of the research conducted in all major branches of oceanography with emphasis on the chemical, geological and biological aspects, as well as a discussion of the methods and techniques used. The U. S. Geological Survey and U. S. Coast Guard have cooperated in the study of currents in coastal waters."
"Ice thickness measurements were made at 22 stations along the coasts of eastern Canada and southern Greenland and on nearby lakes and rivers during the period 1943 through 1951. This report provides a tabulation which exemplifies the type of ice thickness data collected and descriptions of surface conditions during ice formation, growth and decay. Maximum observed ice thicknesses ranged from 31 inches at Presque Isle, Maine to 94 inches in Sondre Strom Fjord, Greenland. Least ice thicknesses at the end of the growth season ranged from 15 inches at Presque Isle to 47 inches at Cape Dan, Greenland. This report also gives the average number of days of ice cover for all stations. It ranged from about 100 days in southern Newfoundland to about 250 days in northern Baffin Island."
"Three lines on a multi-year ice floe in the Beaufort Sea, 200 m, 110 m and 76 m long, were profiled by level to obtain ice surface elevation (freeboard) and snow depths and drilled to obtain ice thickness at two meter intervals. Three models were then constructed to identify the relationship between surface elevation and ice thickness so that top roughness, bottom roughness and thickness could be obtained from a measure of the surface elevation alone: 1. At each profile point isostatic balance was assumed and the thickness calculated from the freeboard by using the average observed ice density of 910 kg/m3. 2. A linear relationship was assumed between freeboard and density with the thicker ice having a lower density (more brine drainage) than thinner ice. Isostatic balance was then combined with the adjusted density to obtain the thickness at each profile point. 3. Finally it was assumed that although the ice was, on the average, isostatically compensated, this compensation does not occur on a point to point basis. Instead, the ice \"below\" each point was distributed over some lateral distance and was not concentrated directly below the profile point. This is essentially the same as the Wittmann-Markarov model for a pressure ridge and is equivalent to operating on the freeboard data with a linear filter to obtain the bottom profile. The first assumption overestimated the thicker ice and underestimated the thinner ice with errors in the estimate of thickness exceeding one meter. The last two models gave roughly similar results, with prediction errors of0.40m. The prediction accuracy is limited by the fact that the high-frequency roughness of the top ice surface (wave lengths less than 10 m) accounts for considerable variance which does not correlate with the bottom surface. An estimate is also made of the error in predicted ice thicknesses based only on the elevation of the upper ice surface as obtained by airborne laser. The error in predicted thicknesses only increased by about 10% over the error obtained from surface observations. Therefore, surface profiles obtained by an airborne laser may be a useful source of ice thickness information."
"Since energy has taken a new importance recently, we have to undertake a closer study of its availability and cost. In this paper will evaluate the energy present in the tide of Ungava Bay and in the rivers emptying into it; we will consider not only the amount energy present in that area but also the possibility of making it available at the moment it is needed."
"Among the Applications Activities (the application of NASA technological expertise to civil sector problems) at the Langley Research Center are the study of pollution transport in the Coastal Zone and coastal wave conditions. This paper describes the Coastal Zone modeling work being undertaken in support of these Applications Activities. The analytical models described are being developed to provide a predictive capability for pollution transport and wave conditions in the Coastal Zone. The models include: (1) a Continental Shelf circulation model, (2) a North Atlantic circulation model intended for validation of the general ocean circulation models, (3) two pollution dispersal models, and (4) a first-order coastal wave refraction model."
"The support of subsea work systems includes the launch and recovery of manned capsules, diving bells, submersibles, etc. Severe weather conditions - i.e., strong winds, rough seas, low temperatures - can easily make the launch and recovery operations hazardous. Ships and handling equipment must be designed and built to withstand the forces and loads of foul weather and to dampen the unpredictable and sometimes violent movements created by the sea. Despite the fact that significant progress has been made in the development of support ships and handling equipment, it still happens rather frequently that sophisticated and expensive subsea work systems are intermittently kept inactive because the weather is too rough, so called \"weather standby\". Sometimes an operation in progress must be aborted because of a sudden decline of the weather situation. Lockheed Petroleum Services Ltd. has developed a subsea oil and gas production system which uses a service capsule as an elevator between the support ship and the sea floor chamber. The company has studied, and is studying, several types of ships and handling equipment for launch and recovery of the service capsule and for support of the subsea operations. The eventual goal for the studies is to develop a support system that will meet the ever increasing demands of the oil industry with respect to weather independency and water depth. The paper describes, briefly, the service system that Lockheed is now operating in The Gulf of Mexico; the service system, which is now \"on the drawing board\", contemplated for North Sea operations; and a subsea support system using a submarine as support ship, which may become the next generation support system."
"An instrument-carrying vehicle capable of being towed at depths of a kilometer at speeds of 5-6 knots is described. The vehicle system can be operated from medium-sized vessels without special handling equipment, cumbersome and expensive cable fairings generally considered necessary for deep and/or fast tows are unnecessary. A stream-driven propellor coupled to a hydraulic pump provides power for actuation of control surfaces. Control is by electrical command from the surface. Instruments including conventional STDs, velocimeters and a current meter have been fitted to the vehicle system. A smaller body is towed below the vehicle to provide a second platform for gradient measurements at fixed vertical separations. Depth is surface controllable over plus or minus 30 meters of nominal without the necessity for hauling-in or paying-out wire. Stability at any depth has been shown to be excellent. It has been possible to follow isodensity (isopycnic) surfaces continuously and track them in depth."
"Among the Applications Activities (the application of NASA technological expertise to civil sector problem) at the Langley Research Center are the study of pollution transport in the Coastal Zone and coastal wave conditions. Beginning with the premise that remote sensing is an important tool for the study of The Coastal Zone (the applicability of remote sensing via satellite to Coastal Zone studies has been demonstrated by the ERTS program), this paper in three parts discusses the integration of remote sensing and in situ data in Part I and analytical techniques in Part II into a program in Part III aimed at developing the capability to monitor and predict pollution transport in the Coastal Zone and predict damaging coastal wave conditions. Based on the remote sensing capabilities discussed in Part I, satellite requirements are defined in terms of orbital conditions needed to insure the required frequency of coverage. Ground truth programs using buoys as the data gatherer are discussed in terms of their utility for both remote sensor calibration and basic circulation studies used in verification of analytical models of pollution transport. The analytical models discussed in Part II are discussed here in terms of the relationship between the model and the remote sensing and in situ data required for initializing the model."
"The ACOustic DAta Capsule (ACODAC) system was designed to obtain long term, unattended measurements of the ambient acoustic noise in the deep ocean. The instrument consists of a 40\" diameter pressure vessel containing a 7-channel low speed analog tape recorder, a time code generator, automatic gain ranging data amplifiers and an acoustic telemetry system. An associated vertical array of six hydrophones spaced at various depths along an electromechanical cable extends from near the surface to the sea floor. Simultaneous recordings over the frequency range 10-400 Hz can be made from all hydrophones for periods of up to 30 days in water depths to 18,000 feet. The instrument has been deployed sixteen times during the past two years by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution with a total accmulation of approximately 850 hydrophone days of data. A brief description of the associated data reduction system is included along with some examples of the 1/3 octave and narrow band spectrum analysis performed on data from one deployment."
"A shipboard Telemetry Receiver Acoustic Command System (TRACS) was designed to be used for two way acoustic communication with and relocation of underwater instruments. The design objectives were compact size, low cost, multi-purpose capabilities, and ease of operation and maintenance of the system. The telemetry receiver system utilizes a four-hydrophone array, bandpass filters and amplifiers, precision time-base for synchronization, a writing amplifier, and a helix, wet-paper recorder. The Acoustic Command System (ACS) incorporates an adjustable digital acoustic command generator, a power amplifier, an underwater sound transducer and an adjustable ACS test output circuit useful for alignment of underwater acoustic receivers. Two systems have been used successfully at sea on four cruises."
"One of the most common forms of pollution at sea is oil. Oil spills may result from an accident at sea, a fire on an oil production platform, a collision of two tankers, or a tanker with another ship, accidental rupture of pipes carrying oil, washing of tankers at sea, etc. After an oil spill occurs at sea, it must be contained to prevent it from traveling toward the shore and being washed on beaches or entering the estuaries. Two methods of oil containment at sea are reviewed, the pneumatic and mechanical barriers."
"The existing theories describing wave forces on large submerged structures are briefly reviewed. Inertial forces are predominant on submerged structures which have the principal horizontal dimension equal to or larger than the vertical dimension. Wave forces on model submerged structures were determined experimentally and results for several geometrically simple structures are presented."
"The temperature within the ice island has an annual period and propagates with damping and phase shift from the surface down to 20 m. Below this level the ice temperature is constant in time and increases linearly towards the islands bottom until it becomes equal to the freezing point of the sea water. The annual component of temperature variations from the upper surface of the island down to the 9 m level is satisfactorily described by a well-known Fourier law for homogeneous isentropic strata."
"The shallow water research habitat, LoraI, has been in operation for three years and is capable of supporting a variety of underwater activities, using three types of diving routines. Since the completion of major repairs, expenditures required for physical maintenance of the facility have averaged at $4,700.00 per year. This does not include salaries and expenditures for new hardware. The most expensive aspects of the maintenance have been directly associ- ated with requirements for operation in the cold water environment."
"Some problems of measuring oceanographic parameters using instruments installed on a submersible are considered in the present paper. Calculations have been made for a submersible of the \"Sever-2\" type, which used the \"Istok-3\" system to measure the temperature."
"It is shown that it is possible to design an ac-voltage bridge consisting only of real resistances without reactances to measure phaseshifts. Such a bridge is realised through two supplies for the two branches of the ac-voltage bridge, in such a way that if the supply for one branch is given by the vector voltage U, the supply for the other branch must then be given by j.U that means by an ac-voltage with a phaseshift of 90°. This bridge has been studied with the result that it may be realised for measuring temperature with a platinum wire to an accuracy of 0.002°C over a whole range of 40°C. A circuit for the realisation of such a bridge is described."
"A new multiple net trawl, designed after the opening-closing Tucker trawl, was developed for sampling zooplankton or small mesopelagic fish. The trawl carries five separate nets and is monitored and controlled electronically. In August, 1973, the trawl was used to determine the vertical distribution of myctophid fish and zooplankton occurring in the upper 440 m at Canadian weather station P in the subarctic North Pacific Ocean."
"The effect of this new method of fishery is not always sure in all cases, but it may be useful in the future particularly for daytime fishing when luring lights would not be useful. A weak point of this method is that it is not available in rough seas as the ambient noise level is too high. If the pressure level of the artificial sound is much higher than the rough sea noise, the fish would be scared. The range over which the fish could be lured is limited by the sound level. The ranges offered are some 20-80 meters from the sound source in our estimation. This method of underwater sound and this equipment of which electric power consumption is less than 100 watts, would both be available to the fisheries, in additon to the characteristics of the individual fish species."
"The effect on aquatic animals of exposure to pollutants has been tested using a novel ultrasonic standing wave generating apparatus. In this procedure, two transducers are placed in a test system and a standing wave at 50 KHz is generated. The receiving transducers are then tuned, so that they are exactly one-half wavelength apart. This creates a three dimensional grid in the system with \"nulls\" or points of least energy return approximately l\" apart. As an organism moves through a \"null\", the energy return at the receiving transducer mementarily changes and a count is recorded. The printout of the device indicates motor activity in terms of counts per unit time. The effects of chemicals, drugs, and other parameters on activity of aquatic animals has been measured quantitatively."
"The results of experimental investigations of reflection, scattering and absorption of ultrasound by sea ice are discussed. A theoretical review of the absorption of sound waves in the body of young sea ice on the basis of suggested double component model is given. It is shown that the absorption in such ice is due to the viscous friction of brine in ice pores. The experimentally obtained angular relationships of ultrasound scattering by ice cover in case the sound is sent through the water are discussed."
"Detailed motion of icebergs has been measured for two successive years using a radar. A comprehensive monitoring of the environmental factors affecting iceberg motion was carried out during one of the years. There are significant correlations between a simple kinematic model to predict the motion of icebergs instead of the more commonly used dynamic model. Large scale disturbances such as atmospheric pressure systems can noticeably affect drift characteristics. To understand all of the factors affecting drift we shall require more carefully collected field data."
"The paper describes a probabilistic dynamic analysis of the response of a fixed offshore tower, idealized as a lightly damped multi-degree freedom system, to ice floe loading assumed to be stationary and ergodic. Digitizing typical force inputs from available records, e.g. Cook Inlet, Alaska, and assuming that Gaussian excitations produce Gaussian responses, power spectral densities of the displacements are obtained. The work forms part of a continuing research project on 'Stochastic Analysis of Ice-Structure Interaction' at Memorial University of Newfoundland and is an extension of an earlier investigation on a single-degree-of-freedom system."
"Three small icebergs have been towed and the towing forces have been measured to determine form drag coefficients. The mean drag coefficient, CW = 1.2, agrees with laboratory values for circular cylinders at similar Reynolds numbers."
"Acoustic energy is produced in sea ice by the interaction of wind-driven drifting snow with its surface. As a result the noise from blowing snow at low frequencies requires understanding as a source of possible interference with stress and strain signals produced by wind stresses on a sea ice cover. The impact frequencies of saltating snow particles on sea ice are controlled by their speed of fall,w, and by the vertical component of their take-off velocity,Vsyo, and are described approximately by the equation f=g(Vsyo + w)-1 Hz , where g is the acceleration due to gravity. Calculations show that frequencies generated are in the band 0.5 to 7 Hz."
"In the Baltic experiments were made using an echo sounder with the transducer rotated around a horizontal axis at the end of an 8 to 14 meter aluminum tube. Each turn gave a visible record of the profile. Using a narrow beam (0.7/deg) the selectivity was good even from a long distance. From a shorter distance echoes were reflected both from the front and from the back side of the first ice floe in the keel and thus the thickness and the width of the ice floe were easily determined. Sometimes several ice floes behind each other gave echoes. Efforts have been made to install the side looking echo sounder on an icebreaker."
"The development and evaluation of a self aligning electromagnetic current meter with unique hydrodynamic characteristics is described. The specific testing of certain components such as the Fluxgate compass and electromagnetic current sensor is also reported along with comments on the suitability of the device for use on slack coastal zone moorings based on test results. The ocean current meters tested have been designed to enhance their hydrodynamic properties. This has resulted in an underwater instrument housing in the shape of a prolate spheroid (torpedo-shape) with appropriate vertical and horizontal stabilizing fins. To complement the hydrodynamic design, the ocean current meters tested were equipped with a new \"unit electrode\", an ocean current sensing technique employing electrodes that can be placed on the surface of almost any shape and which have individual magnetic fields associated with them."
"The conventional method of obtaining voice operated keying (VOX) depends on sensing energy level. This assumes that the speech signal will produce a signal level which is greater than the noise and the circuit would be set to actuate when the signal exceeded some preadjusted threshold. Under adverse conditions, such as encountered in diving, undesired noise signals may equal or exceed the speech signal and the level approach is unsatisfactory. A new approach has been developed which utilized the fact that vowel sounds in speech are generated by the vocal cords opening and closing in a periodic manner. Circuitry has been designed to detect the periodicity of the vocal cord vibrations when vowel sounds are uttered, but rejects random noise which may be present. Sources of noise might include gas turbulence around the microphone when the operator breathes or noises from associated life support equipment such as SCUBA gear. The new VOX has been successfully applied to a wireless acoustic diver communication system to provide \"hands-free operation\", and to a hardwire diver intercommunication system to provide reduction of breathing noise from divers on the line but not speaking."
"The paper considers the special problems associated with handling, launching, towing and recovery of the large side scan sonar vehicle known as \"G.L.O.R.I.A.\", (Geological Long Range Inclined Asdic), using R.R.S. \"Discovery\".(1) (2) A general specification and description of the vehicle is given, together with the requirements of the towing arrangement to fulfill the acoustic requirements of stability. Handling such a vehicle, (which weighs 6,6 tonnes in air), involved the design and installation of a special double fall lifting Davit , with controlled tensioning in the falls. A special cable winch for the large armoured multi-way electric cable was also installed to accomodate the 366 metres of 46m.m. diameter cable required. Acoustic requirements dictated that the vehicle should be towed some 300 metres behind the ship at a depth of approx. 120 metres, and that its stability in pitch and yaw should be of the order of ±1/2. The towing arrangement had therefore to be developed to decouple the motion of the ship from the vehicle. Initially, a scale model of \"GLORIA\" was manufactured, with full instementation to obtain a measure of its stability. This was towed from the \"Discovery\" in representative sea conditions and the towing system proved. The first towing arrangement on the full scale vehicle was found to be rather complicated to rig, and gave excess wear on the accumulator ropes used. A much simpler system was evolved which has been used latterly with great success. Hydrodynamic stability of the vehicle when towing is almost completely controlled by the towing arrangement. Small yaw rudders are fitted to make small corrections in yaw from an inbuilt yaw gyro, and the pitch attitude may be controlled by \"blowing\" or flooding either of the three separate compartments of the vehicle. Both launching and recovery of the vehicle requires the services of a team of skin divers-these operations therefore require relatively calm conditions - but the vehicle can be towed operationally in quite rough sea conditions."
"A three-legged deep-sea mooring was successfully deployed and recovered by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in the fall of 1973. The Tri-mooring supported a rigid three-dimensional array of current and temperature sensors for measuring internal waves in the main thermocline (600-1000 meters depth). The mooring was deployed in 5455 meters of water 700 kilometers southwest of Bermuda for a period of six weeks. Deploying the mluti-legged mooring was made complex by (1) the configuration of the mooring which put the apex 300 meters below the surface when any two anchors were in place, and (2) the use of 1/4\" wire with an R.B.S. of 6600# as the legs of the mooring. The problem of attaching all three mooring legs to the apex float before it submerged was overcome by the use of an auxiliary mooring which supported one leg on the surface throughout the deployment sequence. The light weight nature of the mooring made it susceptible to failure due to dynamic and high static loading. Nylon working lines and good sea condition prevented dynamic loading. R/V Knorr, equipped with twin eycloidal propulsion, provided the position keeping capability and fine control maneuverability to avoid stressing the system. An acoustic navigation system was used to continually monitor ship position and to track the anchors as they were lowered to the bottom. Three-dimensional ship and anchor positions relative to a network of three acoustic transponders were accurate to ten meters. The maneuverability of the R/V Knorr combined with the reliability and precision of relative navigation enabled the anchors to be placed within twenty meters of the ideal target positions. The apex of the mooring stabilized within two meters of the design depth."
"The use of geophysics, in particular reflection seismThe use of geophysics, in particular reflection seismology, in harbor subbottom evaluation is not new. What is relatively new is the precision and high resolution that can be obtained with state-of-the-art transducers and data recording systems. When coupled with calibration borings at selected locations and precision positioning and bathymetry, an accurate 3-dimensional picture of the subbottom can often be obtained that is far more complete than can be obtained from borings alone, and at a lower cost. The purpose of this paper is to review the tools and procedures used by one group, BBN Geomarine, in performing harbor and other nearshore engineering geophysical surveys.ology, in harbor subbottom evaluation is not new. What is relatively new is the precision and high resolution that can be obtained with state-of-the-art transducers and data recording systems. When coupled with calibration borings at selected locations and precision positioning and bathymetry, an accurate 3-dimensional picture of the subbottom can often be obtained that is far more complete than can be obtained from borings alone, and at a lower cost. The purpose of this paper is to review the tools and procedures used by one group, BBN Geomarine, in performing harbor and other nearshore engineering geophysical surveys."
"A computer simulation model of a transiently excited plane piston underwater sound projector is developed, which yields solutions of the acoustic performance of the transducer system to three figure accuracy, at a cost of about $30.00 per case. The methodology outlined, is capable of dealing with the non linearities of an electrodynamic source of the \"boomer\" type, and in addition, is particularly suitable for mechanically \"stiff\" systems, where the time constants of the electrical equation of motion are some three orders of magnitude shorter than the time constants of the mechanical equation of motion. It is shown that the convolution integral representing the transient radiation loading of the medium on the piston appearing in the mechanical equation of motion, may be dealt with by decomposing the electro-mechanical system equations, into two coupled sub systems, the first of which is solved by the method of state variables, and the second, which is solved by direct integration using Simpson's method. A comparison of experimental data and data predicted by the model, agree within the experimental error, in this case about 10%. The model is completely general, and may be adapted to yield both the transient and steady state solutions for any type of transducer, including sonar type projectors."
"Acoustic techniques for operating various types of marine equipment and instrumentation used in the fields of geology and biology have resulted in greater operational efficiency. The user has full control of the various switching operations and a visual record is obtained which is suitable for later analysis. New types of piezo-electric transducers were developed to allow efficient operation under severe working conditions. Geological dredging, pelagic trawling in the scattering layers, and bottom dragging for lost equipment have all been improved by these techniques."
"This paper describes the design criteria for a medium range (750 M) side scan sonar system developed at the Bedford Institute of Oceanography and summarizes some results obtained through its use. It was constructed to fill a need for a system capable of operation out to the edge of the Continental Shelf, in the presence of the strong thermoclines prevalent in the North Atlantic. Because of the environmental conditions in the area of operation, a number of features not found in commercial side scans at the time of design have been incorporated to maximize effective range. These include a remote operated slip ring winch to permit continuous optimization of towing depth, temperature and depth sensors in the towed body to monitor its position with respect to the thermocline, and transducer angle adjustment from the operator console. Survey work with the system to date has been conducted off the coasts of Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Labrador. Many interesting bottom topographic features have been observed, the most important being widespread iceberg scouring in the latter two areas having significant implication on oil pipeline installations."
"The design, construction and operation of a deep towed bottom profiling system is described, capable of high resolution depth sounding and subbottom profiling in water depths in excess of 1000 feet. The system uses both sequentially operated spark and piezo electric sources, information is transmitted to the surface through a multiconductor instrument cable. The effects of pressure on conventional spark sources are discussed. Operational techniques are discussed. Sample profiles from various depths and locations illustrate system performance."
"The National Oceanographic Instrumentation Center performs extensive test and evaluation programs on many types of oceanographic and marine instrumentation systems. The purpose of the testing is to provide performance information on specific instruments for present and potential users, to encourage manufacturers in the development and production of reliable equipment and to create a focus of oceanographic instrumentation expertise which can be called upon by the community. One project at the Center has been the evaluation of water quality systems which combine several in situ oceanographic sensors integrated into a single package designed to measure parameters of interest in water quality studies. All of the systems included in this project measure conductivity, temperature, dissolved oxygen, and pH. One system also measures depth and produces a salinity output derived from conductivity and temperature measurements. In most cases, the basic techniques for sensing the various parameters are similar but sensor design varies. Most of the systems also permit the addition of optional sensors for other parameters and automatic data collection systems. All systems consisted of two separate units: an underwater sensor package and an electronic readout unit for placement on a dry platform. The two units are connected by means of either a single multiconductor cable or several individual and separate conductor cables."
"The investigation of vertical motions in winter during the formation of wide patches of homogeneous water in the Gulf of Lions was made possible by the use of neutrally buoyant floats of the type developed in the WHOI. Those floats are equipped with an acoustic projector delivering a 5 kHz pulse every 4 seconds. The necessity of both a permanent tracking for Comparison with data collected by the surface ship, and of free motions of the ship in the surveyed area has led to the development of a moored array of acoustic buoys with radio transmission to the ship and to the shore. Each mooring is equipped with a deep-sea hydrophone, 15OO meters below the sea level. The acoustic signal, locally amplified, is transmitted on a single conductor armored steel cable to a subsurface float and from there to the surface buoy through a floating cable. The signal is then radioed to the boat (via a FM 30 MHz 1 W radio link) where it is recorded on a graphic scanning recorder with a sweep of 4 seconds. Each buoy is activated in turn 6 minutes every 30 mn by an internal clock. By measuring the difference of propagation time for two of the buoys it is possible to locate the float in an hyperbolic network analog to those of classical radio navigation. The operational area is roughly that of the triangle determined by the buoys, and it can be extended by the use of a shipboard clock synchronized on the floats. In that case the propagation time of the acoustic pulse is measured and only two buoys need be in acoustical range. Acoustical range for a sea state 6 is 15 nautical miles. The radio range at sea level is 30 nautical miles. The ground Station located on a mountain at 2400 m above sea level can receive buoys as far as 100 nautical miles, range that covers all the area of interest."
"A linear array of sensors is considered for detecting a signal echo from a stationary target in the presence of reverberation. The structure of the optimum (likelihood ratio) detector is compared with that of a beamformer - matched filter detector. The conditions causing an increase in the spatial noise correlation between two hydrophones are the conditions under which the optimum spatial detector performs significantly better than the beamforming detector. A study of the space-time correlation function of reverberation shows that (a) a decrease in scatterer angular spread (or a narrowing of the receiver directivity pattern) tends to increase the spatial correlation. (b) If the scatterer Doppler spread is much less than the signal carrier frequency and if the angular spread is uniform, it is still possible to get a high correlation if the inter-sensor distance is much smaller than the carrier wavelength. These conditions indicate situations where optimum techniques may be worthwhile."
"In certain ocean engineering applications, such as pressure-tolerant electronic (PTE) systems, semiconductor devices are exposed to dielectric oils containing a host of contaminants, including dissolved ionic species. The induced electric-field drift of these charged species and their ensuing accumulation near the surfaces of the semiconductor materials has been postulated as a possible failure mechanism. To ascertain the magnitude and limits of such an ion-induced failure mechanism, a technique utilizing the characteristic of the collector-base cutoff current was developed. This characteristic lends itself to evaluating the deleterious effect of oil-soluble ions enveloping semiconductor devices. With this technique it was found that the cutoff current of unpassivated semiconductor junctions increases with the concentration of dissolved ionic species. On the other hand, contaminant induced changes in the cutoff current characteristic of passivated devices depend on collector doping. For p-type collector regions, the cutoff current increases when the device is operated in oil contaminated only with a substantial concentration of ionic species, while the cutoff current of devices with n-type collector regions is unaffected by operation in even a concentrated solution of ions dissolved in oil. In addition, washing surfaces of devices previously exposed to contaminated oils was found to restore the cutoff current to its pure-oil steady-state value. Limited testing under pressure indicates that the same results can be anticipated in PTE systems. The findings and conclusions give added credence to the feasibility of achieving the specific ocean-engineering goal of operating solid-state devices immersed in an oil."
"Target tracking will be defined as the ability to reconstruct, in some operational time frame, the location of an underwater target in both space and time. This capability is extremely important for both military and civilian applications, with the former usually using passive acoustic techniques and the latter employing active acoustics. This paper will describe a set of algorithms and procedures which are general in nature and can be used to evaluate any underwater target tracking system. Basically, the algorithms provide a means for quantifying the accuracy and precision of the tracking system relative to the actual track of the target. The actual target track is known a priori either as a simulated track or as the output of a calibrated acoustic tracking range. The algorithms have been coded and the program is available for general utilization by the ocean engineering community. To demonstrate the application of the algorithms, the results of an actual system evaluation are discussed. In particular, the performance of a Doppler tracking system is described in terms of the metrics. This system was designed to be used aboard an aircraft. It employs a general purpose minicomputer and FFT spectrum analyzer to perform frequency line tracking and a maximum likelihood target tracking algorithm. The experimental data were obtained at the AUTEC tracking range and include the analog tape recorded outputs of a set of freely floating, independent, omnidirectional sonobuoys. The positions of the sonobuoys and the target were determined once per second by AUTEC and were used as the a priori information."
"A system has been developed to track arrays consisting of several sonobuoys deployed for acoustic detection. This navigation technique can be used to track the position of any free-drifting hydrophones. The method, employing bottom-moored acoustic transponders, can provide relative hydrophone positions to within 20 meters. Ultimate geographical positioning is dependent on the accuracy of the primary navigation system available; satellite navigation can yield absolute positions to within 200 meters. The system operates in real time, yielding a hydrophone fix every 20-30 seconds. Sonobuoy arrays have been deployed for acoustic detection and localization of microearthquakes in the median valley of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge."
"The Drifting Buoy Location System is a system for Lagrangian tracking free drifting buoys using high frequency radio signals. Up to 400 different buoys may be tracked using time multiplexing. An audio tone, derived from a stable oscillator, modulates the high frequency transmitter on the buoy. This signal is received at three or more receiver sites and the received tone is compared to reference tone. The phase differences of these signals are used to locate the buoys."
"In discussing the utilisation and application of atomic frequency standards to conventional hyperbolic or phase comparison position fixing systems, a rudimentary knowledge of the positioning system's operation and the specifications of the frequency standard selected for the experiment must first be appreciated. The paper discusses the basic position fixing system, the frequency standard and their subsequent integration and application to precise positioning in offshore activities."
"A free, slowly sinking profiler minimizes the velocity differences between its sensors and the structures which are sensed, allowing small scale features to be measured. Large quantities of data must be stored or transmitted acoustically with a free instrument. SCIMP, an acronym for Self-Contained Imaging Micro-Profiler, records 6 hours of conductivity, temperature, and pressure digitized to 16 bit accuracy every 400 ms. It sinks at rates of 3 to 10 cm/sec, photographing optical inhomogeneities for comparison with the temperature and salinity structures. Alternate sinking and rising or yo-yo stations have produced time series of microstructure profiles in essentially a single column of the ocean."
"A simple focused electronic beamforming approach is being developed for a side-scan bottom mapping sonar which will not have to be maintained at a constant height above the bottom is described. The signals from the elements of a flat receiving array are phase and amplitude corrected and summed in various combinations to form two parallel fan-beams with relatively constant arc resolution. They are in focus from 2 to 62 meters in range. Refocusing is accomplished with only four incremental changes of phase and amplitude across the array. Computer analysis was used to determine the number of focusing/weighting increments required and to facilitate trading-off array element spacing requirements with electronic complexity."
"In this paper we describe the conditions which led to the building of a measuring system for physical chemical and optical properties of seawater and sea-bottom. The measuring system consists of three parts. (1) The submerged sensor units. (2) The sea station placed off the coast near Boknis Eck on a tower or inside a buoy. (3) The shore station placed at our institute with the computer and the radio transceiver. The system can be used for routine measurements and or for special purposes at any time. As far as possible we use commercial sensors. In those cases where commercial sensors were not available we developed our own. Control of mechanical equipment such as samplers can be done from the shore station."
"A modification of the AN/SSQ36 air expendable bathythermograph will very easily make an expendable bathyphotometer. Some of the phenomena that may be observed using this instrument are (1) the extenction coefficient of the open ocean (this will give a good estimate of the phytoplankton concentration; (2) the thickness of an active euphotic zone; (3) the thickness of a surface poluting outflow; and (4) the existence of high turbidity near the bottom due to strong bottom currents. Due to the ease of operation and the expendable nature of these instruments, it is very easy to make a rapid thorough survey of quite a large area."
"The quantitative measurement of the dispersion of matter in large bodies of water, e.g. in ocean currents [1] needs an opto-electronic fluorimeter of very high sensitivity due to the great quantities of the required fluorescent substances like Rhodamine B or Fluorescein. The basis of a new tracer technology of very high sensitivity is the use of pulsed bluish light for excitation [6, 7]. This instrument is known as the VARIOSENS. Due to R&D work, especially on filters, it is able to measure concentrations of fluorescent substances down to10^-12. It has a logarithmic scale covering a concentration range of about 1:3000. The fluorescence is excited by means of a Xenon spark at a frequency of 10/s with stabilized light emission and a wide band optical filter which defines the exact spectral range of the required exciting light. The receiver operates with a narrow band optical filter by measuring the fluorescent radiation of the tracer substance used. This filter must have a very high blocking factor. Without filters the instrument uses backscatter to measure the quantity of suspended particles in the water in mg/litre."
"The design, construction, and use of an oceanographic instrument which measures in situ the optical beam attenuance coefficient of sea water in the range of 0.1 to 4.5 m-1 for any one of six defined spectral bands is described. The instrument is readily calibrated using pure water and has been designed to maintain its calibration over a period of several weeks despite lamp changing and the shocks received during normal shipboard handling. Data from some field trials are presented, indicating the potential of the instrument."
"This paper deals with Kroebel's method of measuring the sound velocity in liquids particularly in water and seawater, a so called frequency method, using an oscillator with continuous waves. It is a short report on the work that has been carried out mainly with the aim to develop new high precision instrumentation to improve standard tables of sound velocity data and to get better knowledge about phenomena in the sea causing the build up of fine structured layers and regions of different sound velocities. The accuracy of the values from the absolute sound velocity measuring device in the laboratory has proved to be1cm/s to1,5cm/s. The sensor developed for free field applications in the ocean using also Kroebel's method has shown a reproducibility of data of about 4 cm/s."
"A small signal processing computer has been interfaced with to the single channel seismic reflection system in use at Atlantic Geoscience Centre (AGC). In this way real time dereverberation, stacking and display of data, particularly in the deep ocean and on the continental slopes can be carried out. Time corrections applied to the signal make bottom reverberations nearly periodic. This dramatically improves the effectiveness of the simple Backus filter. Examples of data before and after processing are presented."
"Estimation of the arrival time of a primary seismic layer reflection is formulated as a radar/sonar problem of optimum processing in the presence of colored noise. In this application, the colored noise is considered to be reverberation noise, the sum of all undesired arrivals. The performance of the optimum processor represents an upper bound for any other processor which seeks to perform the same task. Estimation and detection performance bounds are computed for the optimum processor. A primary distinction between this method and others used to date is that an explicit model of earth attenuation has been postulated and employed in the derivation of the processor: deep return are recoverable in the presence of shallow, for instance, because the deep returns have been more severely filtered by the earth."
"An interim report of the development of circulator equipment for direct calibration of conductive-cell-type in situ conductivity-temperature depth (CTD) instruments is given. Plugs containing thermistors are inserted in the ends of the cell and 200 cc samples of Copenhagen or other water are run through it from one reservoir to another. Laboratory results indicate that salinity accuracies within ±0.010/00 may be achieved routinely thus allowing direct comparison between the in situ reading and a bottle sample."
"The Multisonde is capable of measuring six parameters simultanously, which shall be exten- ded to an amount of sixteen parameters. Possible higher data rates can only be managed by using a digital magnetic tape unit and the easiest way to couple it to the Multisonde is by a minicomputer.This enables also an immediate check of the tape after having registrated one profile, and so prevents that a possible interface defect, leading to an incorrect recording, is not detected during the entire expedition. This paper discusses a real-time computer integrated to the multisonde for faster data processing."
"During the past year an instrumentation array consisting of a savonius rotor current meter, water temperature and salinity sensor and a specially designed transmissometer has been in operation on a converted NOMAD buoy deployed in eastern Long Island Sound. This array in combination with meteorological sensors including wind speed and direction, air temperature and barometric pressure is designed to detail aperiodic storm events and to provide quantitative assessments of their effect on suspended material concentrations and mass transport. The systems characteristics and performance during its first year on station is discussed. Reliability and data accuracy is shown to be primarily limited by intense biological fouling during the summer months and mechanical fatigue produced by persistent aperiodic shock loading. To reduce fouling intensity a system using TBTO impregnated leather collars has been developed. Transmissometer window clarity can be maintained for thirty days. Current meter and conductivity probe reliability remain limited to approximately 14 days during periods of maximum fouling. The occurrence of mechanical fatigue has been reduced by redesign and in some cases replacement of the original sensor units. The overall system performance is evaluated with the results being used to establish design criteria for future coastal buoy systems."
"Electrical readout aneroid pressure sensors were used on two types of buoys which were deployed in an array around the main camp during AIDJEX 1972 to obtain barometric pressure measurements. Laboratory tests prior to the field experiment showed that the calibration of the sensors shifted when they were exposed to normal handling and room temperatures. Corrections for these shifts were obtained by visiting the buoys after installation with portable pressure standards which were referenced to a mercury barometer in the main camp. The corrections ranged from a few tenths of a millibar up to, in one case, 17 mb. Comparison of the portable standards and the mercury barometer revealed significant errors in the mercury barometer readings caused by temperature fluctuations, and a calibration drift in one of the portable standards. The calibrations are probably accurate to a few tenths of a millibar. Comparison of duplicate pressure observations when both types of buoys were at each site shows a relative precision of about 0.1 mb, which is better than the relative precision of the standards. An observation of an unusual pressure feature was confirmed by duplicate buoys at one site. Accuracies better than a few tenths of a millibar will require more work to improve the stability of sensors, to improve the field use of the standards, and possibly to eliminate the effects of dynamic pressure due to wind. An analysis of other error sources introduced in the use of pressure data should precede any effort to improve the measurement accuracy."
"This report describes improvements in the electronics system controlling the four-chambered discrete depth sampler (DDS) on an Isaacs-Kidd Midwater Trawl. A resonant reed relay and voltage transfer relays are utilized to control the solenoids that close the doors of the DDS. The improved system is more reliable and allows greater flexibility than the original system. Notes on net speed and filtering efficiency are also given for depths to 2500 meters."
"An instrument has been designed to record vertical current information. It does this by sequentially monitoring pressure, temperature, and rotation sensors. The data is stored on a digital cassette tape recorder. In addition, it generates a signal for acoustically telemetering part of the data. This permits a check on performance without the need for recovery. The instruments can be readily adapted to a wide range of sensors. Its original use was in the long range floats used in the Mid Ocean Dynamics Experiment (MODE I)."
"The scattering of underwater acoustic waves from a rough ocean surface has been of interest for many years. Most theoretical approaches to the problem use the Helmholtz integral formulation, which requires many approximations to reach simple formulas. In most other approaches to the problem, the acoustic source is considered to have a small beam angle, or plane wave front, which neglects any direct path from the source to the observer. However, certain situations arise particularly in underwater acoustic ranges where the direct path is also important. The purpose of this paper is to determine the farfield produced by an acoustic line source located below a sinusoidal ocean surface. Certain situations arise where the sinusoidal model is a good approximation of an actual ocean surface. For this case, the amplitude of the sinusoidal surface is small compared with the acoustic wavelength in the ocean medium; therefore, a Fourier integral-perturbation series approach can be used to solve the boundary value problem. The resulting acoustic field is composed of the incident and specularly reflected field from a flat surface plus a scattered term for the sinusoidal roughness. The magnitude of the scattered term is directly proportional to the sinusoidal surface amplitude in wavelengths and scattering occurs for specific wavenumber relationships. Graphs are presented of the field variation as a function of the sinusoidal ocean wave motion. Although the scatter theory was applied to a sinusoidal surface, it can be shown that the theory can be applied to any surface that is Fourier transformable."
"The problem of diffuse scattering from ocean surfaces defined by a normal stochastic process is under taken. It is assumed that the surface height profile is the sample mean of the number of profiles obtained for the random rough surface. Theoretical expressions for the returned power are developed by using the Helmholtz integral approach with Kirchhoff's approximations for the plane wave case. The plots of scattered power verus surface height roughness parameter are presented."
"The design of a multi channel digital data acquisition system for use with oceanographic acoustic sensor packages has been presented. The system uses FIR digital filters to efficiently band limit the signals to the bandwidth of interest."
"In the present work, the free-flooding resonant tube with a cylindrical ceramic driver is investigated as a class of low-frequency, light-weight projectors in which the volume velocity is enhanced by a high-Q resonance condition."
"Communication of data to or from a moving underwater vehicle presents unique problems due to the low ratio of acoustic propagation velocity to potential vehicle speeds. Several binary telemetry methods are examined for performance in a noisy channel at Doppler values up to ±3 percent. Carrier frequencies of above 10 kHz are assumed and channel interference is Gaussian noise and multipath fading. It is shown that the best performance is obtained with phase shift keyed modulation and that the optimum detector employs a hybrid tracking loop which combines fast acquisition of a data burst and near-coherent detection of the acquired message. Low false alarm rates are possible by using phase lock indication as a necessary precursor to a valid message."
"The purpose of this study was to determine the acoustic backscattering produced from the bottom of flat, first-year sea ice. Most under-ice reverberation measurements have been made at low frequencies, using explosive sources. Our measurements were made with 60- kHz pulses, and should be of special importance to the higher frequency sonar systems. The experiment site was a first-year ice floe with a large flat area of uniform thickness, about 90 cm. The bottom was considered characteristic of first-year ice. Under-ice reverberation measurements were made at four locations beneath this flat area, using 60-kHz, 4- ms pulses from a directional transducer. Analysis of the measurements shows that the scattering strength varied from -40 dB at a grazing angle of10to -30 dB at a grazing angle of45with a standard deviation of about 5 dB. There was an appreciable spread in the measurements at the four locations; however, the dependence on grazing angle appears to be similar to that of the open sea surface with a light wind."
"Cables are extensively used for the lowering into the water of low-inertia sensors for measuring variations in stream velocity, water temperature and salinity and for acoustic studies in the ocean. When Reynolds numbers exceed 50 the effect of the hydrodynamic flow on the measuring means induces a periodic generating force which sways the instrument at the resonant frequency."
"This paper describes the application of a hybrid computer in the simulation of wind-driven ocean currents. The simulation is based on the mathematical model developed by Ekman. Pure digital simulation is not economical due to excessive computer time required for the solution of the partial differential equations in the model. In the hybrid computer simulation, the ability of the analog computer to solve differential equations fast and the data handling capability and programming simplicity of the digital computer are taken advantage of. The results of the computer simulation for the simplified case of a step-function change in wind show good agreement with the results obtained by other investigators. Actual time-series wind data measured from a fixed buoy were used to calculate the wind stress, which was used as input to the model. The currents computed during the simulation were then compared to currents measured concurrently with the wind data. The current meter records contained tidal components superimposed on the wind-driven currents; so statistical time-series analysis techniques were applied in correlating the data and the computer results."
"Kalman's method of filtering developed in the theory of control is highly promising for the application to oceanography. This can be attributed to two reasons: (i) It permits one to take into account the physical properties of the predicted process in the development of an algorithm for prediction of its values; (ii) It allows one to perform filtering and prediction of the process on the electronic computer, using a short series of observations. Let us discuss a time series of oceanographic observations with the normal distribution of probabilities of values. The problem of prediction of the process in the ocean, given by this series of observations, can be solved effectively by the method of the space of states which is well-known in the theory of control. This problem is equivalent to the construction of the optimal linear dynamic system of control."
"The problem of measuring the relative delay from a composite signal in additive noise is considered. The performance of standard autocovariance, nonlinear spectral analysis (cepstrum), and the delay-locked loop is analyzed and compared to the results of maximum a posteriori estimation. Comparison is based on: ability to detect a multipath situation, accuracy of the delay measurement, and resolution. Under conditions typically encountered in practice, cepstrum is shown to provide near optimum estimates. The relative ability of cepstrum and standard autocovariance to extract delay measurements is demonstrated by the results of an underwater experiment performed under conditions where the acoustic signal propagates along a direct and reflected path."
"In previous papers (1,2) the utility of the physical optics approximation in predicting the electromagnetic signatures of conducting bodies immersed in the ocean was investigated. It has been shown that the physical optics approximation gave excellent agreement with exact results for spheres or radius of one skindepth or larger of the electromagnetic radiation in sea water and good results for spheres down to a radius of one tenth of a skin- depth. The greatest disagreement incurred between the exact and approximate results was about three dB in the latter case. The results were subsequently extended to more complex bodies such as the cylinder, ellipsoid and superellipsoid. In this work the results obtained in the next logical sequential step in generalizing this approach to objects with sharp edges will be presented."
"An acoustic technique for positioning oceanographic instruments in three dimensions at any point in the water column or on the ocean floor is described. The system utilizes an array of acoustic transponders on the sea floor and an acoustic source controlled by an internal clock installed on the device to be positioned. Particular consideration is given to the problem of operating such a system in areas of very rugged topography where direct acoustic paths from instrument to transponder may be obscured. Accuracy and repeatability of the technique utilizing both direct and surface reflected acoustic paths between instrument and transponder are examined experimentally. Results of an experiment to position a bottom sampling device utilizing such a multipath are presented."
"Under consideration are the twin problems of transponder positioning and transponder navigation. Unlike other techniques, the present method remains valid even when a single omnidirectional system aboard ship queries and receives replies from a single transponder, either for ship navigation or for transponder positioning. The method uses the Kalman filter approach for real-time processing of the range data between ship and transponder. This processing scheme extracts the needed information in an efficient way from the range data, when the latter is corrupted by random errors due to the effective sound velocity used, to the measurement of the time delay, and to the motion of the querying ship. The method has been evaluated by a Monte Carlo simulation, where the transponder's R, Rx-Ry coordinates relative to the ship has been estimated. Representative ensemble means and respective rms values for the noise in the range data were treated. For each statistical measure of the noise, one hundred runs were processed by the filter; the errors in the estimated means of transponder's range, and Rx-Ry coordinates, and their respective rms values were calculated over the one hundred member ensemble at each tenth estimate of the filter output. A performance index was calculated which showed a marked improvement in the estimation when the filter was used. The principal advantages of the presented method are its operational simplicity and reduced cost of its implementation."
"Attenuation measurements of a collimated beam of light were made in selected U.S. East Coast waters with a new, unique transmissometer system. Data were obtained in waters off Atlantic City and Cape May, New Jersey; Norfolk, Virginia; and Key West, Florida. Measurements were generally made at a wavelength centered at 534.5 nm. Spectral data were also obtained through the selection of five different filters, ranging from 473-551 nm, which were mounted in a remotely controlled filter wheel. The novel features of the custom-designed transmissometer system are discussed. These include a simultaneous temperature-measuring ability, a dual data output, and a capability of taking measurements from either ship or helicopter. Quantitative and qualitative analyses of sample data are also presented."
"This paper describes a conductivity-temperature-depth (CTD) system designed for precise fine scale measurements of salinity and temperature in the deep ocean. The conductivity sensor is a miniature (8 mm long, 2 mm I.D.) four electrode cell. Temperature is sensed with a combination of a miniature fast thermistor (30 ms) and a platinum resistance thermometer. The combined outputs of the thermistor and the platinum thermometer, with their respective interface circuits, have the excellent long term stability and linearity of the platinum thermometer and the speed of the thermistor but are unaffected by thermistor calibration drift. Pressure is measured using a strain gage bridge transducer. All three sensors with their respective interface circuits and the 16 bit digitizer are excited with 10 KHz sine waves. The D/A converter in the digitizer is an electronically switched binary ratio transformer having negligible errors. The digitizer uses successive approximation to measure the 10 KHz sensor output to input voltage ratio. Digitization time is 10 milliseconds, thus, a complete scan of all three sensors is made in 30 milliseconds. The digital output of each scan is transmitted via armoured cable to the shipboard unit in \"TELETYPE\" format using frequency-shift-key (FSK) modulation. The shipboard unit demodulates the FSK signal from the sensor unit and provides both serial and parallel digital outputs to a shipboard computer. Digital displays and analog outputs are also provided by the deck unit."
"The dynamic characteristics of bottom trawl nets are currently being investigated by the Seattle office of the U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service to improve net design, rigging and handling. To aid in this study, an electroacoustic system to measure and store on digital tape several of the net parameters has been developed by the Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington. This instrumentation package is currently being used by the National Marine Fisheries Service in the Puget Sound area. Initial results indicate that a better understanding of bottom trawl net characteristics, especially at relatively deep depths, has resulted from the use of this equipment."
"For the physical oceanographer in general, temperature T, salinity S, electrical conductivity L and pressure P are basic parameters. Density D, sound velocity V and others can be calculated from T, S and P. However, this is only possible to an accuracy which depends on further parameters which are neglected in the equations because the influence of them is unknown. The problem of the importance of further parameters is discussed and a light attenuation meter is described. Some results of measurements of the attenuation are demonstrated and interpreted."
"A vertical array of inclinometers was used to obtain a time series of near-bottom current profiles at a deep-ocean site near Bermuda. The inclinometers sensed a two-dimensional orientation in the slightly buoyant rope connecting the inclinometers. From the distortion of the rope, the current profile was calculated. The measurements recorded by the inclinometers were compared with simultaneous measurements made by conventional rotor and vane current meters. Generally good agreement was observed between the two systems. Typically the profiles obtained for the lower 200 m of the water column showed an increase in current speed with depth. The maximum values immediately above the bottom were of the order of 10 cm per second."
"High resolution methods such as the so called maximum likelihood or maximum entropy procedures have found extensive use in spectral analysis and array processing. In all of these applications the spectral signals have been sinusoids or planewaves respectively. This led to a very close coupling to harmonic analysis as spectra or wave number functions. If one examines the general structure of these methods, the procedures are more closely related to parameter estimation so that one can consider the analysis nonstationary, or nonhomogeneous signal fields. One such situation exists in seismic profiling when the reflected signal structure presents a hyperbolic wavefront. Results will be presented showing the application of the generalized from of these high resolution methods to a proposed six channel array system for work to be done with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute - International Decade of Ocean Exploration Program."
"The New London Laboratory of the Naval Underwater Systems Center has developed a prototype small diameter line array using pressure-insensitive components. The array is composed of depth sensors, accelerometers, inclinometers and hydrophones. The data acquisition system utilizes FM multiplex with all sensor signals terminating at a surface buoy. the multiplexed data is then transmitted over an FM R-F link to a receiving ship or station. The use of pressure insensitive components has virtually eliminated the requirement for heavy pressure housings and minimized the need for large deck handling equipment. A small diameter line array currently under construction has acoustic and environmental sensors and will operate in a pressure insensitive mode except for one electronic component that will be protected. Many of the system components have actually been pressure tested to 5000 psi. Future arrays are being planned that will operate exclusively in a pressure insensitive mode."
"This paper is a brief review of progress made toward a usable PTE technology at the Naval Undersea Center, Hawaii. It focuses especially on two of the current problem areas: power transistors and hybrid circuits. Results of COSMOS testing are also included. In earlier tests on plastic encapsulated power transistors a dominant failure mode, cracking of the transistor chip, was identified. Its cause was determined and methods were developed to identify devices subject to this failure mode. Currently, metal hermetic-cased power transistors are being opened and subjected directly to the pressurization liquid. Types tested include single, double, and triple diffused mesas, epitaxials and planars. Three fluids are used: a hydrocarbon oil, Shell Tellus 15; a silicone oil, Dow Coming DC 200-20; and a fluorinert chemical, 3M FC43. Two problems in using hybrid circuitry for pressure tolerant electronics were voids in the substrate-to-header bond and the deformation of the hybrid package. How these problems were solved is covered, as are methods to fill and seal hybrid packages."
"A shipboard system for the digital acquisition and processing of marine seismic profiling data has been developed and extensively used during the past two years. Deployed at sea for twelve months, the system supported studies of the Eastern Atlantic Continental Margin. The system consists of two computer subsystems of which one is dedicated to data acquisition and storage while the second performs processing operations. Data processing is carried out in a post real-time manner with results generally available writhin 24 hours. The system has shown high reliability and cost effective operation."
"Acoustic and electromagnetic target seeking systems are generally designed to maximize signal-to-noise ratio in a given environment. In addition, they are sometimes required to discriminate among a multiplicity of simultaneously present targets. To fulfill these objectives, they generally have conflicting requirements placed upon their directional characteristics. A planar transducer array is used to illustrate the problem faced by the designer."
"Electric fields can scare, attract or stun fish. By incorporating electric fields in fishing gears these reactions can be used to increase catching power. The results are presented of a trawling experiment in which an electric stimulus was used to increase the capture rate of Nephrops norvegicus, a mud-dwelling crustacean which spends a large proportion of its time in deep burrows, safe from capture. Several engineering problems were encountered in producing a robust electrical system to develop the necessary electric fields. A power transmission cable supplied energy from the towing vessel to a net-mounted, high-current, pulse generator feeding an electrode array. The high conductivity of sea water required a high, instantaneous, power output from the pulse generator to develop an effective field between the electrodes. Equipment on fishing gear is subjected to severe mechanical stresses, and the choice of fishing gear suitable for electrical fishing, design of electrode array and pulse generator, and handling of the power cable are discussed."
"In recent years rapid technological advances have led to the development of several electronic aids to navigation and considerable research has been carried out in coupling positional information to automatic pilots, with varied success in application. Probably the most noteworthy, albeit in the aircraft industry, has been in the automatic approach and landing of air- craft, where precise positional information in both height and locality has been geared to the automatic pilot to enable accuracies greater than those achieved in manual pilotage to be flown coupled with reliability figures certainly comparable and often claimed to be better than those achieved in manual flying."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper presents two formulations of multi-dimensional digital signals from one-dimensional digital signals so that multidimensional convolution will implement one-dimensional convolution of the original signals. This has reduced an important word length restriction when used with the Fermat number transform. The formulation is very general and includes block processing and sectioning as special cases and, when used with various fast algorithms for short length convolutions, results in improved multiplication efficiency."
"An analytical procedure for designing a linear digital notch filter is presented. The resultant filter is sixth-order and is implemented by cascading three second-order filters so as to avoid instability which may arise from computer coefficient truncation. The procedure outlined is straightforward, requires only simple algebraic steps, and gives filter parameter selection criteria for reducing the effects of computer coefficient truncation. Notch filters have utility in situations where a desired signal is corrupted by an additive sinusoidal pickup. One thus must process the noisy signal so as to remove the sinusoid without significantly distorting the desired signal."
"A method is described whereby an autocorrelation may be computed with slightly over half the usual number of multiplication operations."
"In this paper a design technique for the two-dimensional filters is proposed. An optimization algorithm is developed to minimize the p-error criterion under the constraint that the resulting filter be stable. Design of one-dimensional filter may be considered as a special case to which the proposed algorithm is applicable. Several examples are solved to illustrate the technique."
"This paper discusses the power spectral effects of spline interpolators. A general technique is given for finding the steady-state spectral effects of splines of all orders, when applied following uniform sampling of the input function. The following observations are made: 1) the even order splines that were examined (second and fourth order) possessed divergent steady-state frequency transfer functions, 2) the degree of preservation of the power spectral density of the input process increased with the order of the (odd order) spline used for interpolation, and 3) the reconstruction of a stationary random process over a finite record length will, on the average, have less power than indicated by the steady-state transfer function."
"Formal realization procedures for digital networks (simulation diagrams, state diagrams) are presented. The methods provide step-by-step realization of all network elements either by repeated divisions and order reductions, or a continued fraction expansion. A total of 14 basic canonical forms has been obtained. The determination of multiplier constants in all cases involves only simple divisions, and is particularly simple."
"A class of nonmaximally flat monotonic low-pass filters with sharp cutoff are discussed and shown to provide better magnitude response both in the passband and in the stopband than their maximally flat counterparts. The normalized pole and zero locations of these filters are tabulated for n = 3-11 and different values of the minimum stopband attenuation."
"The nonlinear minimization problem that results from recursive digital filter design with phase constraints is simplified somewhat by working in the time domain. This paper describes techniques that utilize the time samples of the desired response as target values for an iterative minimization. Initial values for the α and β (feedforward and feedback) coefficients can be obtained by one of several reliable methods and fed into iterative routines that lead to a locally optimal solution for the coefficients. The initial guess procedures, stemming from regressionlike equations, only require the solution of a set of linear equations. In addition, the iteration procedures described in this paper lead to recursive filter designs requiring little computer time. Examples are presented to illustrate a range of applications."
"A technique for in situ narrow-band calibration of an acoustic receiver is described. Wide-band Gaussian noise is applied through a random acoustic channel to the receiver and a reference. The resultant output spectra are estimated via Welch's method [1], and the unknown amplitude frequency response is estimated from the ratio of the two spectra. Statistical accuracies of the estimates are investigated. For a specified statistical accuracy, the estimate of the unknown amplitude frequency response is found to require the computation of only one-fourth as many discrete Fourier transforms (DFT's) as the estimates of the two power spectra. That is, where N DFT's are necessary to estimate the two power spectra with a specific accuracy, only N/4 DFT's are needed to estimate, with the same accuracy, the ratio of the spectra."
"Iterative time domain design of recursive or nonrecursive digital filters requires the minimization of an error criterion E. If E is a differentiable functional, the most effective methods (like steepest descent, Newton's method, or conjugate gradient method) use first derivatives with respect to the parameters of the filter. Considering an arbitrary filter structure, it is shown in this paper that the gradient of any differentiable error criterion can be computed in two steps. The first step depends only on the choice of E, whereas the second is based exclusively on the knowledge of the filter structure. We show that the gradient computer is also a linear filter-of order less than (N + 1)2and of similar structure-and that it requires no additional coefficient memory, a fact allowing a simple hardware or software implementation."
"In the absence of an anechoic chamber, far-field acoustic measurements free from coloration are difficult to obtain because of environmental reverberation and background noise. This paper describes an on-line digital processing system capable of optimizing the estimate of impulse response and frequency response under such conditions. Actual measurements demonstrate that properties of the transient response which influence the quality of a transducer may be satisfactorily evaluated with such a system."
   "An analysis of zero-input limit cycles in coupled digital filters is presented. Amplitude bounds are derived and compared to those of the second-order direct configuration."
"The probability density and related properties of the relative error due to rounding after floating-point arithmetic operations can be computed from the distributions of the mantissa and its absolute error. Various results obtained, in particular, under different assumptions concerning the distribution of the mantissa are presented on a common basis and in such a way that they are independent of the number of digits in the mantissa, thus facilitating comparisons."
"Explicit formulas for the element-values and realizability conditions of the recently obtained basic canonical forms are presented."
"Some recent papers on digital filter design have been concerned with the use of unconstrained minimization techniques, such as the Fletcher-Powell algorithm, to optimize the design to a prescribed frequency domain description. This paper looks, in detail, into the use of two variable substitution methods to bound the poles and zeros of the filter for stability and minimum phase considerations. One of the methods is shown to be superior to the other. Extensions of the work are indicated for two-dimensional recursive filter design and more restrictive bounding on the filter configuration than would normally be considered."
"The use of data windows in digital spectral analysis causes a covariance between spectral components in the periodogram. The variability of the smoothed spectral estimator, obtained by a graded summation of adjacent periodogram values, is increased. These effects are analyzed for white Gaussian signals."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"It is of importance to find the necessary and sufficient conditions under which the one-dimensional and two-dimensional processing of any general transform should be equivalent. These conditions are found. It is known that the Fourier transform does not possess the described property. It is shown in this paper that a one-dimensional Fourier transform cannot be equivalent to any two-dimensional transform. On the other hand it is shown that the two-dimensional Fourier transform is equivalent to a one-dimensional transform of another kind and that the processing can be performed by a fast algorithm."
"A detailed discussion of the computer simulation of a linear prediction vocoder system is presented. The basic technique used for analysis is the autocorrelation method of linear prediction. New results include modifications to the simplified inverse filter tracking (SIFT) algorithm for more efficient pitch extraction, coding algorithms for low-bit rate transmission, a simplified synthesizer gain calculation, and a bias correction for the synthesizer driving function. Experimental results are presented which illustrate both the capabilities and limitations of linear prediction vocoders."
"The structure of transforms having the convolution property is developed. A particular transform is proposed that is defined on a finite ring of integers with arithmetic carried out modulo Fermat numbers. This Fermat number transform (FNT) is ideally suited to digital computation, requiring on the order ofN \\log Nadditions, subtractions and bit shifts, but no multiplications. In addition to being efficient, the Fermat number transform implementation of convolution is exact, i.e., there is no roundoff error. There is a restriction on sequence length imposed by word length but multi-dimensional techniques are discussed which overcome this limitation. Results of an implementation on the IBM 370/155 are presented and compared with the fast Fourier transform (FFT) showing a substantial improvement in efficiency and accuracy."
"The problem of designing recursive digital filters whose frequency response approximates an arbitrarily prescribed function in the Chebyshev sense on a single interval is considered. Certain degenerate cases where the best Chebyshev approximation is not equiripple are studied in detail, and an algorithm is given for determining the best Chebyshev as well as the best equiripple approximation. Finally, a number of examples illustrating applications of this algorithm are given."
"An algorithm is presented that introduces two degrees of parallelism into the implementation of fast Fourier transform (FFT) processors. That is, both the radix of factorization and the number of arithmetic units may be selected to achieve the required processing speed. A serial vector multiplier that is ideally suited to the implementation of a general radix arithmetic unit is described. It is subsequently shown that a fast Fourier processor having an attractive cost performance ratio can be built by employing serial arithmetic in the implementation of the algorithm developed."
"This paper discusses the use of linear programming techniques for the design of infinite impulse response (IIR) digital filters. In particular, it is shown that, in theory, a weighted equiripple approximation to an arbitrary magnitude function can be obtained in a predictable number of applications of the simplex algorithm of linear programming. When one implements the design algorithm, certain practical difficulties (e.g., coefficient sensitivity) limit the range of filters which can be designed using this technique. However, a fairly large number of IIR filters have been successfully designed and several examples will be presented to illustrate the range of problems for which we found this technique to be useful."
"An algorithm is presented which finds the frequency and amplitude of the first three formants during all vowel-like segments of continuous speech. It uses as input the peaks of the linear prediction spectra and a segmentation parameter to indicate energy and voicing. Ideally, the first three peaks are the first three formants. Frequently, however, two peaks merge, or spurious peaks appear, and the difficult part is to recognize such situations and deal with them. The general method is to fill formant slots with the available peaks at each frame, based on frequency position relative to an educated guess. Then, if a peak is left over and/or a slot is unfilled, special routines are called to decide how to deal with them. Included is a formant enhancement technique, analogous to a similar technique which has been implemented via the chirp-z transform [8], which usually succeeds in separating two merged formants. Processing begins at the middle of each high volume voiced segment, where formants are most likely to be correct, and branches outward from there in both directions in time, using the most recently found formant frequencies as the educated guess for the current frame. The algorithm has been implemented at Lincoln Laboratory on the Univac 1219 and the Fast Digital Processor, a programmable processor [9], and has been tested on a large number of unrestricted sentences."
"A lumped parameter formulation for the electromechanics of a class of electret transducers is developed. An energy method is used to calculate the force of electrical origin and the technique is employed in the solution of two important electret transducer geometries. The results are checked by a surface integration of the Maxwell stress tensor."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem of implementing a two-dimensional recursive filter as a one-dimensional recursive filter is examined. The results of the present paper show that the exact one-dimensional implementation of a planar recursive filter is a time-varying filter. However, planar filters may be approximated by one-dimensional time-invariant recursive filters. The frequency response, stability, and storage requirements of the approximate filters are derived and illustrated."
"In this paper, a systematic procedure to test for stability of three-dimensional filters (discrete and continuous) is presented. The test is based on repeated applications of an extended Hermite or Schur-Cohn formulation, and use of Sturm's theorem to determine the content of a system of polynomial inequalities in a single indeterminate. The need for generating a constructive algorithm for stability tests for higher than three-dimensional filters using Tarski's generalization of Sturm's theorem is discussed. Application of certain combinatorial rules for transforming the multidimensional digital filter problem to the multidimensional continuous filter problem or vice versa) is made."
"The use of time-domain specifications is demonstrated for designing frequency-sampling digital filters that generate data pulses for transmission over an ideal band-limited channel. Desired characteristics of the transmitted pulse are used to formulate the set of constraint equations and objective function used in linear programming to obtain an optimum set of filter coefficients, i.e., frequency samples{| H(k) |}- The constraints are the amplitudes assigned to the set of regularily spaced samples taken from the pulse. The objective function is either to minimize the maximum absolute error between desired and generated pulse samples over the specified pulse duration or to provide zero crossings in the transmitted pulse with near-zero slope in order to protect against intersymbol interference (ISI) due to timing error (jitter)."
"This correspondence presents an improved implementation of the fast Fourier transform without sorting."
"An efficient APL [1], [2] computer program is presented for the calculation of the bilinear transformationsZ = (S + 1)/(S - 1)orS = (Z + 1)/(Z - 1)using theQ-matrix of Fielder [6]. The program utilizes the extremely efficient matrix manipulation and computational properties afforded by the APL language."
"The precision of an analog cross-spectrum measurement can be estimated if the product of the two signals is integrated by a voltage-to-frequency converter having separate pulse outputs for positive and negative inputs. The difference between the two pulse counts gives the spectrum reading, while their ratio is used in estimating the precision. Coherence may also be estimated in this way."
"The problem of designing a finite duration impulse response (FIR) digital filter to approximate a desired spectral response is treated in this paper. The philosophy adopted is that for a given FIR filter structure, the filter coefficients can be designed to provide a minimum mean-squared error (MMSE) estimate of a random signal sequence (the design-signal) imbedded in a random noise sequence. By treating the signal and noise covariance functions as design parameters, one can design FIR filters with spectral responses that approximate the power spectral density of the design-signal. For signal processing applications that require some attention to signal fidelity, as well as noise rejection, the MMSE philosophy seems appropriate (as opposed to a maximum signal-to-noise ratio philosophy, for example). Several practical designs are presented that emphasize the simplicity of the design technique and illustrate the selection of design parameters. The designs show quite dramatically that the MMSE design technique can be competitive with existing low-pass and bandpass design techniques. Finally, considerable attention is given to an efficient Toeplitz matrix inversion algorithm that permits rapid inversion of the covariance matrices that arise in the MMSE design. The resulting computation times for the design of high-order filters (N = 128, e.g.) appear to be shorter than computation times for competing algorithms."
"The impulse-invariant equivalent digital versions of second-order bandpass analog filters are stable only for coefficients within specific ranges. The quantization of these coefficients may thus cause an originally stable filter to become unstable; the sensitivity of the digital filter to such changes is found to depend on the sampling frequency. Analytic and graphical design techniques are developed for determining the range of sampling frequency that, with a predetermined register length for the coefficients, renders the digital equivalent of a tuned circuit always stable. A comparison is also made between instability caused by quantization of coefficients and limit cycles resulting from the rounding of products."
"A speech intelligibility measurement system is described that uses a computer to administer the test, record the listener response, and automatically evaluate it on-line. This makes the intelligibility testing conditions uniform at all times and the test more efficient compared to conventional methods. The test words are presented in random scramblings by using a shuffling algorithm. The listener's response is entered via a graphic tablet used as a \"software keyboard.\" The response evaluation is done based on the similarity of sounds and not of spellings. The system is being used in the development and evaluation of analysis-synthesis type of speech compression systems and for identifying perceptually important parameters from the linear prediction model of speech. Adaption of this system to various speech perception experiments is also discussed."
"The purpose of this paper is to introduce a spectral-flatness measure into the study of linear prediction analysis of speech. A spectral-flatness measure is introduced to give a quantitative measure of \"whiteness,\" of a spectrum. It is shown that maximizing the spectral flatness of an inverse filter output or linear predictor error is equivalent to the autocorrelation method of linear prediction. Theoretical properties of the flatness measure are derived, and compared with experimental results. It is shown that possible ill-conditioning of the analysis problem is directly related to the spectral-flatness measure and that prewhitening by a simple first-order linear predictor to increase spectral flatness can greatly reduce the amount of ill-conditioning."
"This paper describes a speech synthesis system which is particularly suitable for experimental investigations. The synthesis is accomplished in two stages. The concatenation stage generates a schematized spectrographic representation corresponding to the symbolic input. The second stage consists in generating the corresponding acoustic signal. The steady state characterization of each phoneme is supplied as data. Independent concatenation procedures incorporate context dependent effects such as format transitions, changes in the normal duration of vowels, etc. The parameter values for these procedures are obtained by a set of rules. Applicability of a rule is determined by attributes assigned to the phonemes. The phonemes are divided into classes and subclasses by the attribute assignment. The attribute STOP, for instance, defines the class of all stop consonants and BILABIAL STOP would define the set/p, b, m/. Thus, a rule specifies a parameter value when a subclass of phonemes occur, in the context of another subclass. Such a formulation considerably reduces the number of rules. The classification as well as the rules are supplied as data to the system, giving it considerable flexibility. The spectrographic output of the concatenation stage is used to actuate a simulated series terminal analog synthesizer. Rudimentary prosodics are incorporated which modify a monotonous pitch contour with stress markers and interrogative or declarative termination of a sentence."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "The compressibility of air inside a loudspeaker enclosure can be increased if the enclosure can be made isothermal. Stuffing fibrous material into an enclosure tends to make it isothermal since the material acts as a heat sink. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of filling material in loudspeaker enclosures, the thermal time response of fibrous materials is calculated. The time response is found to depend on the density of the material and the radius of the fibers. The frequency response of a typical fiberglass material is presented."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are developed which insure finite fading memory least-square Fourier coefficient estimates from time and frequency domain data are equal. The implementation of such filters are also presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents a class of generalized continuous transforms for the orthogonal decomposition of signals. Base functions for the continuous transform range from Walsh functions of order two to stair-like functions which resemble approximations to sinusoids and which are distinct from the generalized Walsh functions. Standard desirable properties which are shown to hold for the generalized continuous transform operator include orthogonality of the base functions, linearity of the transform operator, inverse transformability, and admissibility to fast transform representation. The transform class is governed by a definition of time translation in terms of signed-bit dyadic time shift. Mathematical properties leading to this definition are discussed and the impact of the definition is assessed. Properties of the continuous class of generalized transforms make feasible analysis which could be extremely tedious using matrix representations of the operations actually mechanized in a sampled-data system. Analysis techniques are illustrated with a target detection system which is conceptually designed using the generalized continuous transform and implemented using fast transform algorithms to perform correlation operations. Since the correlation operations are valid for inputs which include signals represented in terms of Walsh functions, the example illustrates one instance in which the binary Fourier representation (BIFORE) transform can be used for practical pattern recognition."
"Any digital filter can be decomposed into two basic subsets, an extrapolator the output of which is sampled at a frequency depending only on the filter bandwidth and an interpolator delivering the filtered signal at the imposed output sampling rate. Redundancy in extrapolator and interpolator is removed by introducing half-band nonrecursive filtering elements for which definition, performance figures and efficient implementation are supplied. They reduce significantly the necessary computation and storage at the cost of a slight group delay increase. A formula is given for the amount of multiplications to be carried out every second in a filter; it depends on the filter bandwidth, signal to distortion ratio, and input-output sampling rate. The method is extended to recursive filters and a comparison is made with existing techniques of implementing digital filters for the needs in computation and storage hardware: a specific example of design underlines the reduction in computation speed achieved in practice through this method, which brings digital filters in a most favorable position for their competition against analog filters in many application fields."
"The application to unequal bandwidth and vernier spectrum analysis of a technique referred to as digital frequency warping is discussed. In this technique a sequence is transformed in such a way that the Fourier transforms of the original and transformed sequences are related by a nonlinear transformation of the frequency axis. An equal bandwidth analysis carried out on the transformed sequence then corresponds to an unequal bandwidth analysis of the original sequence. A comparison is presented between the bandwidth as a function of frequency for the digital warping technique and proportional bandwidth analysis. An analysis of the effects of finite register length in implementing digital frequency warping is also presented."
"A flexible, low-cost hardware structure is described for implementing recursive digital filters. Either a parallel or cascade arrangement of any number of second-order filter sections may be implemented for each of the input channels. Although the internal arithmetic is fixed-point, filter coefficients may be represented in floating-point form to reduce coefficient roundoff error."
"This paper presents a random search computer design technique that is shown to be suitable to the solution of a class of waveform design problems. The class of problems considered is that class in which only the phase angles associated with a fixed power spectrum ensemble of sinusoids are varied so that the sum of the sinusoids approximates some desired waveform. Two illustrative peak-factor design problems are considered in order to demonstrate use of the random search, which is seen to have the capability for both adaptive search radius and adaptive direction."
"A set of piecewise-linear (PL) basis functions for signal or functional decomposition is introduced. These basis functions provide a PL approximation to the signal and an a priori determination of the required number for a finite term expansion to achieve a certain pointwise approximation error. Moreover, the expansion coefficients are linear combinations of samples of the function to be expanded and are virtually trivial to determine."
 "The implementation of the Linear Prediction Auto-correlation Vocoder (LPAV) with fixed-point truncation arithmetic is presented. For a speech bandwidth of up to 3.3 kHz, it is possible to implement LPAV with a maximum of 16-bit fixed-point arithmetic, thus allowing for very efficient software simulation on minicomputers or economical hardware implementation on a special purpose computer. The resultant degradation with respect to a floating-point implementation is negligible. The three most critical system components are discussed in detail along with various tradeoffs such as effects on system stability as a function of preemphasis and sampling frequency. The results are also applicable to general finite word length digital filter implementation problems."
"The durations of initial and final consonant clusters in monosyllabic and bisyllabic words within a frame sentence were studied from spectrograms of readings by 3 speakers. The durations of consonants within a cluster varied with the features of the consonant and its phonetic environment, such as voicing and point and manner of articulation. A durational model was proposed based on two mechanisms. An articulatory mechanism was attributed to effects involving coarticulation and restrictions in the motion of the tongue and lips during a cluster. Shortening of consonants in clusters seemed to arise from the shorter distances that the articulators travel in clusters. Lengthening of consonants before fricatives and voiced consonants and aspiration effects were noted. The other factor was a phonological mechanism, related to the use of duration as an acoustic cue in consonant perception. Single consonants varying only in the voicing characteristic had substantial durational differences which could aid in distinguishing them. However, phonological restrictions, such as common voicing among stops and fricatives, arise in the clusters, and the redundancies allow the durational differences to become less."
"A signal detection scheme of moderate complexity is implemented using the Hadamard transform. The performance of the scheme is between those of a data editing system and a matched filter. The scheme is very simple to implement, requires much less computation than a matched filter and could be of considerable value when large amounts of input data are being processed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An algorithm with a view towards computer implementation is given for stability test of filters of arbitrary dimension and complexity. The algorithm is based on the generation of a number of multivariable polynomials, reduction of each of these into several single variable polynomials by a finite number of rational operations, and a scheme of repeated single variable polynomial factorizations and back substitutions."
"An analysis is presented for the joint probability density functions of power spectra of random processes computed under various conditions of data/frequency smoothing. Spectral correlation functions are determined which illustrate the effect of smoothing on adjacent spectral ordinates. The technique of segment averaging of spectra is explored and bivariate probability density functions established for correlated spectral ordinates. These distributions are shown to be generalizations of the well known Rician probability density functions. Finally, the case of spectra obtained as moving average values is considered and expressions are derived for the spectral correlation functions in terms of the parameter of the smoothing sequences and the averaging length. It is shown that spectra obtained in this manner introduce a distortion of the spectral correlation function. Several computed results are included to illustrate the analysis."
"A number of signal processing techniques which have been developed for processing one-dimensional sequences do not generalize to the processing of two-dimensional signals, largely due to the absence of a two-dimensional factorization theorem. In an attempt to circumvent this problem, a specific representation of two-dimensional sequences as one-dimensional sequences is presented in this paper. Using this mapping several two-dimensional problems can be viewed as one-dimensional problems and approached using one-dimensional techniques. This representation is valid both for signals of finite extent and for the more general class of signals with rational Z-transforms. In this paper we consider applications of these techniques for high speed convolution, processing of drum scans, and two-dimensional finite impulse response (FIR) filter design."
"A simple method of calculating the steady-state value of the variance of the output noise of a digital filter due to the input quantization noise or internally generated noise from product round-off is presented. The output noise is expressed as a sum of simpler terms belonging to one of four basic groups. Explicit expressions have been developed for rapid evaluation of these terms in the expansion. The method is illustrated by means of examples."
"A new method of tracking the fundamental frequency of voiced speech is described. The method is shown to be of similar accuracy as the Cepstrum technique. Since the method involves only additions, no multiplication, it is shown to be faster than the SIFT algorithm. The basis of the method is searching for a minimum in the magnitude of the difference between a speech segment and a delayed speech segment. This is shown to be equivalent to selecting the comb filter which best annihilates the input signal."
"In this paper we discuss the issues involved in implementing an automatic computer voice response system which is capable of serving up to ten independent output channels in real time. The system has been implemented on a Data General NOVA- 800 minicomputer. Individual isolated words and phrases are coded at a rate of 24 000 bits/s using a hardware adaptive, differential pulse-code modulation (ADPCM) coder, and stored on a fixed-head disk as a random access vocabulary. By exploiting the features of ADPCM coding, it is possible to create and edit automatically a vocabulary for the system from an analog tape recording of the spoken entries, with minimal operator intervention. To provide ten simultaneous output lines of speech which are independent of each other required the use of an efficient scheduling algorithm. Such an algorithm was provided by the computer manufacturer in their real-time multitasking system which was part of their Fortran software. Thus almost all the programming required to implement this real-time system was in Fortran, thereby providing flexibility and ease in making changes in the system. Initial applications of the voice response system are in computer aided voice wiring, automatic directory assistance, and experiments on speaker verification, but the system is sufficiently modular to adapt readily to other applications."
"This paper describes a method for using the average magnitude difference function (AMDF) and associated decision logic to estimate the pitch period of voiced speech sounds. The AMDF is a variation on autocorrelation analysis where, instead of correlating the input speech at various delays (where multiplications and summations are formed at each value of delay), a difference signal is formed between the delayed speech and the original and, at each delay, the absolute magnitude of the difference is taken. The difference signal is always zero at delay = π, and exhibits deep nulls at delays corresponding to the pitch period of voiced sounds. Some of the reasons the AMDF is attractive include the following. 1) It is a simple measurement which gives a good estimate of pitch contour, 2) it has no multiply operations, 3) its dynamic range characteristics are suitable for implementation on a 16-bit machine, and 4) the nature of its operations makes it suitable for implementation on a programmable processor or in special purpose hardware. The implementation of the AMDF pitch extractor (nonreal-time simulation and real-time) is described and experimental results presented to illustrate its basic measurement properties."
"The parametrically controlled analyzer (PCA) is a large PL/I program which has been designed to perform spectral analysis of speech signals. PCA features parametric selection of several analysis methods, including discrete Fourier transformation and linear predictive coding. Also, selection may be made among various smoothing, normalization, and interpolation methods. PCA develops high-quality spectrographic representations of speech for standard line printers and CRT displays. The PCA is described and numerous examples of various parameter settings are presented and discussed."
"A technique is presented for the design of cascade form recursive low-pass digital filters which can assist in minimizing the number of coefficient bits. Simple constraints on the pole positions due to filter coefficient quantization allow intuitive adjustments of pole positions to arrive at a desired frequency response function."
"In a wave digital (WD) filter, attenuation, and thus attenuation sensitivity, can be defined in two different ways. The first type of sensitivity is of importance from the point of view of attenuation distortion and can easily be kept small. The second, which differs from the first at most by an additive constant, is important from the point of view of roundoff noise. Structures are discussed for which both definitions coincide, thus ensuring the possibility of keeping both sensitivities simultaneously low."
"A two-pass recursive scheme is proposed for realizing zero phase shift filters with arbitrary magnitude characteristics. The first pass is performed in forward time and the second in reverse time. The effect of initial and reverse time transients is discussed, and a scheme for quasi on-line adaptation is presented."
"An efficient algorithm for the determination of the coefficients of a polynomial from evenly spaced sample values of that polynomial on a spiral contour in the complex plane is presented. It is useful for the determination of a sequence from evenly spaced values of its Fourier transform."
"A simple procedure is presented to develop a fast Fourier transform (FFT) program for PQ points starting from a program for Q points, with emphasis on Q = 2M. The transformation with respect to the factor P is followed by a transformation of P groups of Q points each using the existing subroutine, then the array is unscrambled with respect to P."
"The last sentence on p. 405 in the above paper states: \"This paper ... shows that the low-frequency response of the drone-cone system is a little inferior to that of the bass-reflex system, ... .\" The exposition of this correspondence shows that a properly designed drone cone for a phase-inverter loudspeaker will provide performance superior to that of the same loudspeaker with a port."
"It seems that there is much confusion and misunderstanding with respect to the nature of helium speech and in the design of helium speech unscramblers. This is due to the lack of collective studies covering not only physical properties but also human factors. Some comments on the problem are presented on the basis of author's own experimental results."
"Although much has been learned about the relationships between design parameters for finite impulse-response (FIR) low-pass digital filters, very little is known about the relationships between the parameters of multiband filters. Thus given a set of design specifications for a multiband FIR filter (e.g., filter band edge frequencies and desired ripples in each of the bands) it is difficult to choose a set of modified parameters which will yield an acceptable filter using a standard FIR design algorithm. By an acceptable filter we mean one with monotonic behavior of the frequency response in the DON'T-CARE or transition regions between bands and one providing at least the desired attenuation (or ripple) in each of the bands. In this paper, we examine the theoretical and practical issues of designing multiband filters and present several strategies for choosing the input parameters for the McClellan et al. filter-design algorithm to yield reasonable filters which meet arbitrary specifications."
  "Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The exact impulse response of field parameters for any field point on or off axis for the case where a circular disc radiator face is subjected to a displacement step corresponding to a velocity impulse is reviewed. By convolution, the transient field pattern for any arbitrary motion of the disc can be obtained. The exact response for a half-sine monopulse is computed. An approximate representation of the transient pressure response to the velocity impulse input at the disc is derived, and it is shown to correspond to the replica pulses described previously. The regions of validity of the approximation are quite limited and the replica pulses are displaced in time from the positions formerly attributed to them. The displaced replica approximation is applied to an examination of the structure of the near field for continuous sinusoidal excitation and a plot of positions of extrema is produced. It is shown that this approximation gives good agreement with the exact values and is superior to the previous published approach in this regard. For short sinusoidal pulses the effect of pulse length on the field pattern, and of field point on the time history of a transient wave are shown. When the excitation is a short sinusoidal pulse the effect of the pulse length and field point position on the field pattern and wave shape are demonstrated."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the theoretical differences and results of experimental comparison of the stationary (autocorrelation) and nonstationary (covariance) linear prediction formulations when applied to voiced speech analysis. In this experimental study three criterion used for comparison purposes are: 1) total minimum normalized squared error, 2) accuracy in estimating speech spectrum, and 3) accuracy in estimating formant parameters. The results of linear prediction pitch synchronous as well as pitch asynchronous analyses of synthetic and natural speech are given. Influence of analysis segment size and its position on the estimated formant parameters and total minimum normalized squared error have been investigated. For pitch synchronous analysis, nonstationarity is a better assumption than stationarity, but for pitch asynchronous analysis and large analysis segment size (20-25 ms) the performance of both formulations in representing the speech waveform is practically the same."
"In this paper we describe an application of a real-time isolated-word recognition system, to the recognition of sentences of a language used in numerical command of machine tools. The acoustic level operates with dynamic matching procedure and knowledge about syntactics and semantics of the language is used to predict the incoming words. With such a syntax-directed system, real-time recognition of sentences pronounced word-by-word is very accurately achieved, even for several speakers. This system will then be adapted to the recognition of connected speech, as well as in the design of new languages for man-machine voice communication."
"The application of the \"branch and bound\" technique for nonlinear discrete optimization, due to Dakin, to the problem of finding the coefficients of a recursive digital filter with prescribed number of bits, to meet arbitrary response specifications of the magnitude characteristic, is investigated. Due to the fact that the objective function is nonlinear and the stability constraints are linear with respect to the parameter, the recent algorithm for nonlinear programming due to Best and Ritter is used. Based on the ideas presented, a general computer program has been developed. Numerical experience with the present approach is also presented."
"The digital filtering of two-dimensional signals offers the many advantages characteristic of digital computers, such as flexibility and accuracy. Applications exist in the processing of images and geophysical data. A technique is presented for designing stable two-dimensional recursive filters whose magnitude response is approximately circularly symmetric. This is achieved by cascading a number of elementary filters which are called rotated filters because they are designed by rotating one-dimensional continuous filters and using the two-dimensional z-transform to obtain the corresponding digital filter. Stability of these filters is considered in detail and the results obtained are stated in two corollaries. In particular it is proved that rotated filters are stable if the angle of rotation is between 270° and 360°. Finally, methods of analysis and design of the shape, circular symmetry, and cutoff frequency of two-dimensional recursive filters are discussed."
"In this paper a fast algorithm for the transformation of the logical autocorrelation function to the arithmetic autocorrelation function is derived, and a computationally efficient procedure for estimating an arithmetic autocorrelation function via fast Walsh transform (FWT) techniques is described. The savings in computer time over straightforward lagged-product computations or the fast Fourier approach is considerable."
"The delta modulation (DM) of signals which are already in digital form is of interest in a variety of signal-processing applications. It is shown that a delta modulator for digital inputs may be usefully interpreted as a process of slope bias, accumulation, and overflow detection leading to designs which are simpler than those based on analog techniques. Applications are discussed including a divider for delta-modulated signals and an averager of K delta-modulated inputs."
"A new approach to the implementation problem of digital filters is presented. This approach capitalizes on recent advances in semiconductor memory technology and is shown to offer significant reductions in cost and power consumption for the same speed of operation as that of existing realizations. Furthermore, this approach makes possible speeds of operation which cannot be achieved by existing realizations. The proposed approach yields a very flexible hardware configuration and a discussion of the various options is presented together with a comparison to existing realizations. The mean-squared error resulting from the use of finite word length is analyzed."
"Different fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithms for hardware implementation have been considered. We propose an implementation whereby two radix-N1/2passes are carried out in parallel and in which each N1/2-point transform is carried out via a serial input parallel output transform circuit. The processing rate is one clock cycle per input point for the N-point transform regardless of the value of N chosen. The circuit is being implemented with TTL logic and will be used to perform spatial frequency domain filtering on two dimensional infrared camera images in real time; real time meaning processing between frame display."
"Recent work by Thajchayapong and Rayner [1] demonstrated a technique for designing recursive infinite impulse response (IIR) digital filters by linear programming. By using an algorithm, described by Barrodale et al. [2], the differential correction algorithm, we will show how one may obtain optimum rational approximations to a given magnitude-squared frequency response in the Chebyshev norm. This optimization may be carried out on disjoint sets of frequency points obviating specification of the given magnitude-squared frequency response in transition bands. In addition, it will be shown how the differential correction algorithm is easily generalized to include weighted Chebyshev approximation."
"The 'Know your AdCom' column of this issue of the Newsletter is focussed upon Alan V. Oppenheim who has been a member of the Administrative Committee (AdCom) since January 1, 1972. When he was approached for a brief biographical sketch he had this to say."
"Describes the special features, technology, and communications capabilities of recording analyzer systems.  Exlplains their deployment and identifies their communications capabilities."
   "The Administrative Committee (AdCom) of the Society meets to make strategic decisions and establishes the policy for the Society. The following is a report of the items discussed."
 "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
   "Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researcher"
 "The recollection I have is that I agreed with dropping the \"Know Your AdCom\" feature from the Newsletter when I responded to the survey. Having just read the biographical sketch from Alan Oppenheim, I wish to reverse myself. Such sketches are inspirational and seem well-worth the two pages. That is the type of information I think to be appropriate for a newsletter for a group such as the ASSP. Please count this note as one expression in favor of returning \"Know Your AdCom\" to the Newsletter."
"The IEEE is seeking delegates to attend t1h9e7 5 USSR Popov Society Congress as part of its annual exchange. The theme for the IEEE delegation will center around the technologies of Division I, i.e., acoustics speech and signal processing: circuits and systems; control systems; and information theory. Qualified members are requestetdo submit applications to their respective Group or Socipetrye sidents as soon as possible. It is anticipated that selections will be finalized in October or November of this year."
"The Administrative Committee (AdCom), which establishes the policy for the Society's activities, has vacancies each year as the terms of elected members expire in rotation. Candidates are sought from all segments of the society, including individuals from industry and universities."
"In many engineering applications, it is not enough to say things are similar - one generally wants to know how similar they are. It is desirable to have a number or a set of numbers to that one can compare the similarities of sets of different things. The techniques of correlation are specifically intended for such applications."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 'Know Your AdCom' column of this issue is focussed upon Howard D. Helms, Secretary-Treasurer of the AdCom since January 1, 1973. During the past 7 years, Howard was active in the group on various committees, some of which were as follows: Co-chairman of Measurements Concepts (1968), Vice Chairman of Exploratory Efforts (1968-70), Vice Chairman of Standards (1971-72), and Chairman of Awards (1973). A short biographical sketch follows."
   "Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
 "The Administrative Committee (AdCom) of the Society meets to make strategic decisions and establishes the policy for the Society. The following is a report of the items discussed."
"The 1974 International Conference on Noise Control Engineering was held as scheduled in Washington, DC, on 30 September - 2 October 1974. We are pleased to report that from all indications, INTER-NOISE 74 was a most successful venture. Some 800 engineers and individuals concerned with noise control attended the Conference, and 95 of these were from fifteen countries other than the United States! The enclosed materials document the activities at INTER-NOISE 74."
"Useful methods for the evaluation of systems of insulation for random-wound stators of rotating electric machines are given. The chief purpose is to classify insulation systems in accordance with their temperature limits by test, rather than by chemical composition. The procedure is intended to evaluate insulation systems for use in usual service conditions with air cooling. It has also been a useful tool for evaluating systems for special requirements where machines are enclosed in gas atmospheres, subjected to strong chemicals, metal dusts, or submersion in liquids, although these special requirements are beyond the scope of this test procedure."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An introduction to chemical phenomena associated with microwave plasmas is given. Specifically, the generation, the identification, and the reactions of microwave plasma species are discussed. Some applications of microwave plasmas are also presented."
"The point-to-point transfer of power by a microwave beam is an emerging technology with several unique characteristics and applications. The technology is examined in terms of the microwave beam itself, and the conversion technology between microwaves and dc power at either end of the system. The existing efficiencies and the projected efficiencies for the overall system and its elements are emphasized. The procedure for designing a highly efficient microwave beam power transfer system of arbitrary length starting from the microwave generator and terminating with the receiving aperture is given. The potential applications are discussed in terms of the unique characteristics of microwave power transmission. The successful experimental work on microwave-powered helicopters is reviewed. A potential application to bring down power from space is examined."
"High-energy physics research as conducted at Argonne National Laboratory is characterized by transport of beams of highly relativistic charged particles, and detection and analysis of the interaction of these particles with one another. Microwave systems find application in both areas. In beam transport RF separators are frequently used to physically separate particles of different quantum mass. Microwave discharge chambers are used for particle detection and polarized proton targets are used to analyze the scattering of particles."
"With the advent of the computer and automatic test equipment, new techniques for measuring complex dielectric constant (ε) and permeability (µ) can be considered. Such a technique is described where a system is employed that automatically measures the complex reflection and transmission coefficients that result when a sample of material is inserted in waveguide or a TEM transmission line. Measurement results of ε and µ for two common materials are presented."
"RF pulses are used in radar and sonar to detect and locate targets in extended media. Short RF pulses (and impulses) can be used to find buried objects or voids by echo sounding, or can be used to probe snow fields or the depths of the earth. Although similar to radar in principle, there are important differences in these applications that can lead to significant variations in the design approach. A novel system is described, with a computer-programmed tunable RF source, that tunes rapidly through all the frequencies of a nanosecond pulse spectrum, makes individual \"CW\" measurements, stores them, and finally computes a synthetic echo. Target signatures can be \"recognized\" by calculating correlation functions. Experimental results are presented."
"Food processing has become an important aspect of microwave heating; several technically and some economically successful developments have been reported over the past 10 years. However, the number of microwave installations in the food industry is still very small and not in proportion to the publicity given in many trade journals. The basic theory for the dielectric heating of foods is first reviewed and examples are given of the methods which can be used to analyze heating applications, a valuable complement to empirical testing. Present applications of microwave heating of foods are reviewed. Promising new applications of partial thawing, cooking, and sterilization are discussed in some detail. Some of the reasons for the apparently slow development of these applications are discussed, pointing out the need for better cooperation between manufacturers and users. The opinion is expressed that microwaves will eventually become a standard tool in the food industry for certain processing steps along a continuous production line where very rapid and uniform heating is required. However, it will be necessary, to a much larger extent than in the past, to adapt microwave heating equipment to the processes rather than to adapt the processes to standard microwave systems."
"The use of electromagnetic (EM) power for therapeutic applications has existed since EM sources have been available to man. Physical medicine has been a major user of both shortwave (27.33 MHz) and microwave (2450 MHz) diathermy over the decades in which the EM power has been used to heat deep tissues for stimulating various medically beneficial physiologic responses in the relief of certain pathological conditions. Experimental and clinical research indicates that these responses will occur as a result of elevating the tissue temperatures in the range 41° to 45°C requiring absorbed power densities from 50 to 170 W/kg in the deep tissues where treatment is desired. The combination of pain responses and a large reserve of blood cooling capacity seems to be sufficient for limiting the heating to safe, but therapeutic levels in vasculated and innervated tissue. Recent research has shown that the use of the industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) frequency of 915 MHz is more efficient than the currently used 2450-MHz microwave frequency in terms of maximum power transfer to deep tissues. The results also show that in addition to thermal applications, microwave energy can be used for the controlled transcutaneous stimulation of nerve action potentials via implanted miniature microwave diodes."
"Uniform heating of frozen canine kidneys (-79 to 23 ± 10°C) has been achieved using a microwave heating system at 2450 MHz. The kidneys contained the cryoprotective agent dimethyl sulfoxide; Uniform cooling was obtained at 1°C/min, with fluorocarbon perfusion down to -40°C. Slow environmental cooling was used from -40 to -79°C, the temperature at which the organs were stored for periods up to several days. After microwave thawing at rates between 2 and 4°C/s, temperature differences were ≤10°C, provided the initial perfusion of the kidney had been complete and uniform. For comparative purposes, these microwave heating rates were also applied to organs immediately after perfusion cooling to +4°C. Microfil injection and histological studies of thawed and reimplanted kidneys have shown some preserved capillary blood vessels, but, as yet, frozen-thawed kidneys have not functioned. Viability tests-oxygen and para-amino-hippurate (PAH) uptake-- have been performed on kidney slices recovered from -79 or -196°C by the same method. As yet PAH uptake has not survived kidney slice thawing, although light microscopic structure of these slices is well preserved. The work describes a complete System for the uniform deep freezing and thawing of whole organs, a system in which all the variables can be controlled, and from which viability studies can be established."
"Extant techniques for remotely sensing the earth with instruments operating at microwave frequencies are surveyed. Microwave sensors can provide day-night operation and almost an all-weather capability due to higher transmission through clouds at microwave than at visible or infrared wavelengths. Passive (radiometers), active (radars, altimeters, and scatterometers), and composite (passive-active) microwave sensors are in use or planned for such diverse applications as measuring ocean surface dynamics, Ocean salinity, soft moisture content, atmospheric temperature and atmospheric constituents; detecting sea ice, oil slicks, and storm cells; and identifying agricultural crops. These measurements have been taken with sensors located in towers, aircraft, and most recently satellites."
"Implantable soil moisture sensors suitable for long-term monitoring of moisture in highway subgrades and for similar applications are needed. Two candidate designs of microwave sensors (operating range 4 to 6 GHz) have been investigated for such applications. One design uses the fringing field of a low-loss dielectric slab waveguide (relative dielectric constant of 25) to obtain good resolution for finely divided soil such as bentonite clay with moisture ranging from 10 to 50 percent by dry weight for effective sample volumes of 20 to 40 cm2. The response of the dielectric waveguide sensor has been calculated in terms of the effective dielectric constant of the soil-water mixture. A model based on index of refraction yields an effective dielectric constant in reasonable agreement with experiment when effects of ionic conduction are accounted for. Another sensor design, better adapted for coarse materials, such as crushed limestone aggregate, uses waves launched from a tapered dielectric slab. By using either frequency or spatial averaging methods, the launched wave sensor accommodated aggregate particles passed by a 0.63-cm mesh sieve, and was found to have satisfactory resolution for the range of 0- to 10-percent moisture by dry weight."
"Measurements are made to determine the conductivity and dielectric constants of a gray clay loam and a reddish-brown clay loam. The measurements are made as a function of soil density (from 1.2 g/cm3to 1.8 g/cm3), soil moisture (from 0 percent to 20 percent of the dry soil weight), and excitation frequency (from 30 MHz to 4 GHz), using standard transmission line techniques. A correction term is presented to allow the effective open-circuit and short-circuit connections to be placed at any convenient location with respect to the soil-air interface."
"Since the effective permittivities of water and oil differ by an order of magnitude, it is shown that it is possible to measure their relative concentrations in crude oil by measuring the effective permittivities of the mixture at microwave frequencies. Dielectric mixture theory is used to show the relationship between the permittivity and the relative concentrations of two materials in a mixture. It is shown that equivalent results are obtained for the case of small concentrations of water in oil by using a perturbation theory analysis for a liquid cylindrical sample flowing through a resonant cavity. Results are presented for a sample enclosed in a thin-walled Pyrex tube with measurements taken for water concentrations in oil of 0-10 percent by volume. A practical instrument is described which uses a comparative technique for continuously comparing two samples of oil, one \"dry\" and one \"Wet.\" Results show that this type of instrumentation can obtain sensitivities of 0.05-percent water content. The instrument is very simple, and has an output that can be readily adapted to automatic control applications."
"The design of an efficient microwave plasma source is described. This source consists of a quartz tube surrounded by a cylindrical variable-length cavity which is connected to a 2.450-GHz power microwave source. The circuit performance of the plasma-cavity system is qualitatively explained and the lossy plasma-cavity eigenfrequencies are computed as functions of plasma density, effective collision frequency, and cavity length. Experiments demonstrate that a variable high-density plasma with densities in excess of 1000 critical densities can be sustained. Furthermore, by adjusting cavity length and coupling, microwave plasmas can be sustained in flowing and nonflowing argon gaseous environments from pressures of several microns to over one atmosphere."
"Possible practical applications of a novel technique for the measurement of dielectric constant, or analogous quantities, at microwave frequencies are considered. Although originally developed for microwave diagnostics in plasma-physics research, it is felt that the method may be of interest in certain problems of current scientific and technological interest. Conventional systems for the determination of microwave dielectric constant are \"passive\" in the sense that the quantities of interest are determined from a shift in phase, or frequency, in a passive element, such as a microwave bridge; the microwave energy required for the measurement is derived from an external source. In the method described here, use is made of an \"active\" system in which a positive feedback loop containing a microwave amplifier provides positive gain. The entire configuration, including the measurement element, then comprises a microwave oscillator, the frequency and amplitude of the oscillator containing information on the quantities being measured. It appears that the method can be attractive from the point of view of sensitivity, response time, linearity, dynamic range, and convenience of readout. In addition, an active system can function as its own telemetry unit. Aspects of the theoryof active systems are analyzed, and factors that enter into the design and construction of such systems are described. Experiments carried out to evaluate active systems in gas turbulence measurements and in the determination of size distributions of particles with dimensions of tens of microns are described."
"An electrooptic intensity modulator using lithium niobate has been developed for applications in binary fiber optical digital communications at the wavelength of 1.06 µm. We have shown that many shortcomings generally associated with electro-optic modulators can be surmounted. The modulator was driven by a compact transistor amplifier, temperature dependence of the static birefringence was minimized, and the optical bias was made adjustable by a dc voltage superposed on the signal. The modulator has been operated at 70-Mb/s pulse rate and 100-percent modulation, its extinction ratio is better than 40 to 1 and the optical insertion loss is about 1 dB."
"The probability density function for the amplitude of a Gaussian-shaped pulse of unknown arrival time is derived together with its mean and variance, when the time argument of the pulse is randomly distributed according to a Gaussian probability distribution or a uniform distribution. Then using the amplitude density as a prior distribution, the marginal density function for the pulse plus stationary Gaussian noise and its attendant expression for the probability of detection are derived. Applications to the calculation of detection probabilities in the presence of pulse peak location errors are cited."
"The bandpass Wein network and the inverse Wein notch network are considered in their general tapered form. It is proved that for these networks the effect of the internal impedance of the driving source can be exactly compensated for in a simple manner. This property becomes very useful in situations where this compensation is desired or mandatory as in precision decade oscillators and phase shifters."
"Two realizations of a third-order low-pass Butterworth characteristic are discussed. All capacitances and resistances used in these realizations are of equal value. The sensitivities of these realizations are compared with those of the Huelsman and the Dutta Roy and Malik realizations. From the sensitivity point of view, the circuits proposed are better than that of Huelsman and compare favorably with, or are better than, those of Dutta Roy and Malik."
"A digital oscillator having a unique limit cycle, independent of the initial conditions, is described. The oscillator is synthesized by discretizing a continuous oscillatory system described by a nonlinear difference-differential equation. Simulation results for a system utilizing a word length ranging from 8 to 12 b are in good agreement with analytical results."
"A quantum communication channel carrying orthogonal coherent signals of known phase, received in the absence of background noise, is shown to have infinite capacity."
"Deformation available to excite ultrasonic vibrations is caused as magnetostriction in a conducting Mn-Zn ferrite crystal when an electric current passes through the crystal. Its conversion efficiency from electrical to mechanical vibrations is very good, because magnetic flux around the current is closed and has no free pole to induce a demagnetization field."
"GaAs DDR (double-drift-region)-IMPATT diodes have been made by using epitaxial wafers with a p+-p-n-n+structure, which was made by successive liquid-phase epitaxy of p+, p, and n layers on n+substrate in one heat cycle. On the diodes with copper heat sink, the maximum CW output power of 1.2 W was obtained at 21 GHz with the efficiency of 15.6 percent."
"Transit-mode Gunn oscillations with a peak-to-valley ratio of 2.1 in current waveforms were observed in planar-type devices of InP in a field ranging from 6 to 10 kV/cm. Even in 3-level theory, the effective diffusion coefficient is not large enough to suppress the buildup of high-field domains."
"CW CO2laser radiation is detected by employing the photon-drag effect in a p-type germanium bar. Design, fabrication, and performance of such detectors are discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Semiconductor-device quality and reliability are discussed in the context of the major factors producing failures, the relationship of process technology and its control to device quality and reliability, the testing procedures used to determine quality levels, and screening procedures that can be employed to segregate certain levels of device quality. Failure rates are presented for transistors and for both bipolar and MOS integrated circuits in several types of packages and for several kinds of device process technology."
"This paper describes the standardization and specification approach used by the U. S. Department of Defense (DOD) to procure reliable semiconductor devices. A brief discussion of the background and rationale leading up to the present approach, and some of the experience upon which it was based, is presented. Related reliability studies and other activities necessary to assure effective implementation of this approach are summarized. The emphasis in the discussion of these studies is on identification of failure modes and mechanisms and the use of this information in device specification, qualification, reliability testing, and reliability prediction. Major consideration is given to microelectronic-device reliability problems."
"The history of reliability of semiconductor devices in the Bell System is a story of sequential application of principles-first, of reliability-enhancing processing principles, which are applied in the absence of completely knowledgeable design and testing control; second, of testing-control principles, which follow growing knowledge of process defects and their susceptibility to exposure by test; third, of design-control principles, which derive from mature processing and the essentially automatic elimination of workmanship defects. These principles were generally applied to the design and reliability technologies of successive decades of semiconductor-device manufacture. The 1950's saw the development of new device designs with no really severe reliability requirements; a history of this period shows, in fact, that semiconductor devices were better than reasonable testing specifications could prove they were; although one of the reliability advances of that period was promoted by Bell Laboratories-the use of a sampling technique which provided the user a statistical guarantee of the reliability he was buying. The 1960's saw the implementation of, first, the manufacture of diffused devices capable of high-stress testing and, second, the use of high-stress burn-in and life-testing controls which were rigorously relatable to expected reliability at the low stress of application. The motivating forces behind this high-stress testing were the need for low-failure-rate devices and the recognition that such failure rates, of the order of 0.001 percent per thousand hours, could not be proved by life tests at the stresses of the application. The technology of the 1970's is that of the beam-lead sealed-junction device, representing elimination by design of the major failure mechanisms of the devices of the 1960's. Although the elimination of the need for a hermetic seal raised the additional need for demonstration of the ability of a device and its plastic coating to survive in a high-humidity environment, this demonstration was also found to be amenable to physically based relationships between humidity and temperature conditions and device life. The successful development of relationship between effective device test requirements and system life objectives is attributed to the Bell System interrelationships by which the device designer is responsible both to the user (the system designer), with whom he has agreed upon a reliability objective, and to the device manufacturing organization, to which he owes the most economical combination of processes, process controls, and final testing requirements to meet the system objective."
"The rising interest in the use of elevated temperatures to accelerate the life of semiconductor components warrants a review of the mathematical basis of the technique. Starting from the four reliability probability functions, the lognormal density function is featured showing how the temperature dependence of the associated cumulative failure function leads to a prediction of the component median life under service conditions through the construction of Arrhenius lines. Both steady and incrementally raised temperatures can be employed to gather test data, the latter-the \"step-stress\" method-involving a correction procedure. The analysis is illustrated by its application to test results from bipolar and MOS transistors."
"The demand for reliable semiconductor components in telecommunications systems has stimulated the preparation of two specification schemes, one for bipolar digital integrated circuits of the widely used standard-scale type and the other for MOS custom components representing large-scale integration. While sharing many reliability requirements with other applications, the telecommunications field is distinguished by the need for a long service life, often of several decades. Both schemes accordingly involve accelerated tests, particularly those employing elevated ambient temperatures. Other requirements are also common, as for encapsulation, but the main approaches differ. For bipolar circuits, the traditional component sampling procedure is adopted, details being given of the basis and background of some of the more important clauses. The MOS specification is based on design and process control, of which only the latter is presently developed featuring the use of a specially designed test component. Many years must elapse before the impact of the specifications can be judged objectively, but an encouraging impression has been obtained from early experience of their application."
"The Bell System initiated development of semiconductor devices for use in broad-band repeatered coaxial submarine-cable telephone systems in the early 1960's. Development of such devices has continued at varying levels of activity to this date. Now, over a decade later, more than five years of successful operational life have elapsed on the first installed system; one transatlantic system is in operation and several more of equal or greater length are in various stages of construction. Laboratory-like life validation tests have been conducted on all the devices for use in these systems, and up to seven years of history have elapsed on groups of 100 devices representative of the five varieties used in the first system. No failures have been observed either in service or in life validation tests, thereby confirming a FIT rate of better than five. Moreover, variables data for the representative samples aged for seven years indicate that the confirmed FIT rate may be extremely conservative. Silicon diodes aged below breakdown are more stable than the life-test system designed to evaluate their reliability. Silicon diodes aged in breakdown show a linear drift in leakage current which is so small that it is not detectable except with an ultrasensitive test system. Germanium transistors evaluated over this same period show that the change in current gain they exhibit will be substantially less than the goal established for them at the inception of development. Silicon transistors being developed for a new higher capacity system show promise of exceeding the stability of the more extensively evaluated germanium devices. These results have broader implications than their relevance to submarine-cable system performance since they indicate that the reliability which has long been considered to be inherent in semiconductor devices not only has been demonstrably achieved in quantitative terms but can be considered to be designable for future system applications."
"MOS LSI circuits share many of the reliability problem associated with discrete semiconductors and medium-scale integrated circuits. However, because of the added complexity, larger chip size, and higher densities of MOS LSI circuits, different approaches are needed. A close working relationship between the designer, manufacturer, and user-the reliability triangle--is needed to generate the manufacturing controls, testing methods, and reliability assessment procedures and to optimize the performance and reliability of the MOS LSI circuits. Using this approach, the MOS LSI circuit, having more functions per external connection, can provide a more reliable system than one of equal complexity, based on discrete devices or less complex integrated circuits. Specific areas of reliability such as pattern sensitivity, manufacturing controls, assembly, packaging, and electrical testing have also been discussed."
"Where small numbers of highly reliable semiconductor devices are required, conventional methods of procurement are found to have deficiencies. An approach to procurement is proposed which is cost effective, accommodates new device types, and assures reliability in the individual device. Although principally applied to silicon planar transistors, the approach can be extended to other semiconductor types. A critical evaluation is made of the manufacturer and his technology. The devices obtained from each diffused wafer are grouped into separate lots. Selected tests are performed on these lots in order to discover possible failure mechanisms. Tests may involve simple electrical measurements or detailed techniques such as scanning electron microscopy and X-ray microprobe analysis. The Canadian/U.S.A. Communications Technology Satellite (CTS) program has adopted this procurement procedure."
"Transverse modes in a distributed feedback semiconductor laser are discussed. A scheme for discriminating these modes is suggested."
"A quasi-geometric stability criterion for feedback systems with a linear time invariant forward block and a periodically time varying nonlinear gain in the feedback loop is developed."
"A simplified theory that provides the basis for determining the optimum gas composition and pressure which maximize the responsivity of millimeter and submillimeter glow-discharge detectors at a given spectral frequency is presented together with experimental verification."
 "An effort is made to generalize the orthogonal method of nonuniformly spaced arrays. The elimination of currents Alis achieved when the spaced array F(u) is given. In addition a flow diagram is given by means of which Alis computed."
"Double-level metallization (Al-Al2O3-Al) 64-b and 500-b linear, n-channel, surface-channel charge-coupled device (CCD) shift registers (with 929 µm2(1.44 mil2) area per bit) show charge transfer efficiencies of 99.98 percent at 1-MHz data rates. Results indicate advantages for the Al-Al2O3-Al metallization system in ease of fabrication, reliability, clocking, charge carrying capability, and high-speed operation of large arrays."
"Measurements of large-signal impedance, ac voltage and dc voltage V0versus dc current I0on Si p-n-n+IMPATT diodes in pulse operation (80 ns) suggest that the efficiency of Si IMPATT diodes is limited by instability effects causing a splitup into regions with different current densities. The effect is explained by considering the I0-V0curves at constant ac voltage. These can be S-shaped owing to impact ionization in the drift region."
"A study of the multiplication gain against frequency has been made for a two-layer avalanche photodiode consisting of an avalanche layer and a drift layer. The analysis shows that as the ratio of the avalanche-layer width to drift-layer width increases (keeping the total depletion-layer width fixed), the multiplication gain increases but the bandwidth of the diode decreases. However, when photons are absorbed in the p-region, i.e., before entering the depletion region, the multiplication gain of the diode remains almost the same while the bandwidth increases as the structure changes from p-i-n to Read type."
"Complementary n+-p junction TRAPATT diodes have been fabricated for C-band operation. Peak power output as high as 27 W with 42.5-percent efficiency has been achieved at 7.2 GHz."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Extremely low frequencies (ELF) are ideal for communicating with deeply submerged submarines because, below 100 Hz, electromagnetic waves penetrate deeply into seawater. Propagation at these frequencies takes place in the \"waveguide\" formed between the earth and ionosphere; low propagation losses allow nearly worldwide communication from a single transmitter. Atmospheric noise at these frequencies is caused entirely by lightning; the non-Gaussian nature of this noise has important implications for receiver design and performance. Because the ratio of ELF transmitter input power to radiated power is very low, it is important that the modulation/coding technique employed make very efficient use of received signal energy. Such an efficient receiver has been implemented on a small digital computer and has been used to receive messages aboard a submarine crossing the Atlantic Ocean."
"The generation of intense ultrashort light pulses in mode-locked laser systems has made possible a wide range of new experiments designed to study the interaction of light with matter. For the quantitative interpretation of the results, accurate measurement of the optical pulse structure is essential, and it is the purpose of this paper to review all the diagnostic techniques currently available. The recent rapid development of the electron-optical streak camera is highlighted, while considerable space is devoted to an extensive description of the many second- and higher order correlation measurements (including the popular two-photon fluorescence method). A discussion of ultrafast shutter techniques is also included, together with a section on pulse chirping and dynamic spectroscopy."
"In most of the applications contemplated for Walsh functions these binary waveforms would replace the more usual sinusoids, as the fast-Walsh-transform algorithm appears to make them very attractive for many kinds of signal processing. This paper begins with a brief review of the characteristics of Walsh functions and of their applications. Some old and some new interrelations are presented between sinusoids and Walsh functions, but the principal aim of the paper is to investigate the truncation and roundoff errors associated with the use of Fourier and of Walsh series. By employing simplifying approximations it is found that, for long samples of smooth signals, far more terms are required in the Walsh-series representation and greater accuracy is required of their coefficients for a given rms total error. Even for discontinuous signals the Walsh series may require substantially more terms, thus counterbalancing the computational advantage of the fast Walsh transform. This relative inefficiency of the Walsh-series representation of long waveforms may explain why it has not proven particularly effective in applications."
"A review of recent developments in high-pressure pulsed molecular lasers is presented. Included are some experimental results on TEA lasers, E-beam lasers, and lasers using Blumlein excitation. Discussions of the kinetic modeling, the parametric behavior, and the characteristics of uniform discharges in the high-pressure pulsed CO2laser are given. Recent results on pulse-initiated chemical lasers, extremely high-pressure lasers, and high-repetition-rate TEA lasers are also discussed. Efforts to control and use the output from these devices are described, and an extensive list of references is given."
"The eikonal equation for moving media (first order in V/c) is derived for the electromagnetic case. Maxwell's equations with Minkowski's constitutive relations, and the dynamic programming approach, lead to essentially the same result. The acoustical eikonal equation for moving media is derived by means of the dynamic programming method. A result obtained by Kritikos, believed to be wrong, is shown to be valid as an approximation."
"An extremely useful and very complete analytical description of backscattering by turbulent irregularities has recently been given by Wheelon. Some confusing features in his treatment of the practical example of a rectangularly pulsed narrow-beam transmitted wave are being discussed."
"A finite-element method is developed to investigate surface waveguides of complicated shapes in the presence of dissipative materials. The complex propagation constants for axially symmetric TM surface-wave modes on a conducting wire and on a lossy dielectric rod are determined. The results are compared with analytical results and in the case of the dielectric rod, the calculation is extended beyond the limits of accuracy of the perturbation method."
"Expressions are derived relating the nondominant pole locations of a distributed-active low-pass network to the dominant pole locations, and relating the Q of the nondominant poles to the Q of the dominant poles. It is shown that, in general, the effect of the nondominant poles is very small."
"The technique of noise reduction by means of a matching transformer is treated as a modification of the amplifier input noise sources, without resorting to the concept of noise figure. It is shown that matching is independent of the thermal noise of the source. The technique of noise reduction by paralleling input devices is also mentioned as closely equivalent to transformer matching."
"The noise performance of a GaAs FET (series Gat. 1, Plessey, England), operating in the pinchoff mode and in the common-source configuration, is examined neglecting thermal effects due to the velocity saturation. The complete equivalent circuit of the transistor including all extrinsic and package elements is used to obtain the noise figure of the transistor in the frequency region between 0.5 and 4 GHz. All computations of the noise figure are made using the noise model of van der Ziel."
 "Tabulated values of transistor charge-current-voltage characteristics are generated directly from device process parameters An efficient numerical Laplace inversion method is used with a piecewise-linear approximation technique to obtain the time response of the transistor in a given circuit."
"By using a coordinate transformation based on Gaussian-beam theory, we can apply efficient fast Fourier transform (FFT) computational methods to diffraction problems involving spherically diverging or converging waves as well as to quasi-collimated beams of radiation."
"A simple generalization of the Luenberger method for pole assignment is introduced which allows one to obtain a greater number of feedback laws giving both the desired poles to the system and the choice of a larger number of solutions to the designer."
"The analysis of second-order tracking loops, with an arbitrary phase detector characteristic is carried out, for large detuning, by the quasi-stationary approach. The main feature of this technique lies in the simple mathematical tool which allows a direct physical insight into the acquisition behavior and yields closed expressions for the time and range acquisition."
 "Suppression of temperature variation and improvement of surface roughness on filter materials were accomplished by using hot-pressed piezoelectric ceramics consisting of ternary complex ceramics, PbTiO3and PbZrO3, and a compound Pb(Mn1/3Nb2/3)O3. The electromechanical coupling factor kswas 0.239, temperature variation of wave velocity TVs, was 17 ppm/°C, and average pore size was 1.5 µm. The ceramics obtained are suitable for such practical devices as surface-wave filters."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Computer graphics applications, software, and hard-ware research, are examined and evaluated in Continental Western Europe. Growth has been slow. The reasons are the high cost of hardware and the complexity of the required software. The past reveals a rather dim picture. Mechanical engineering applications have shown some promising success. Electrical engineering applications have been effective mainly for PCB and IC mask layout only. Interactive graphic software has not yet effectively found its way outside Fortran. APL-G seems an interesting graphic extension of the language APL. Promsing trends appear to be on the horizon. They are related to hardware and software tradeoffs, as, for example, in the TALENT System. The need for computer graphics still exists. The hardware and software tradeoffs will receive more attention. Success in computer graphics will depend upon advances in computer systems design, especially programming languages and systems. Computer graphics has yet to come of age."
"A number of computer applications generate perspective drawings of proposed highway designs as a means of design evaluation. The use of this capability is rare in the United States. Examples, developed in France, show computer-generated perspective drawings simulating several actual highway design situations. Highway construction costs are rapidly increasing in the United States prompting a need for design optimization including wider use of computer-generated perspectives and simulations. This is encouraging the development of network-supported intelligent interactive graphic terminals. Congressional testimony supports the need for better ways to communicate proposed highway and transportation system designs to citizen groups. Computer-generated dynamic simulations were used as a basis for Congressional testimony. Computer simulations have been proposed to evaluate alternate commercial signposting situations in the State of Oregon. Two techniques for producing color and landscape enhanced perspectives are available, and electronic microfilm recorders offer promise as a means of producing simulations. There is a growing need for computer-generated simulations for designing better highway systems, and the necessary experience and technology are available."
"The key role played by computer graphics in urban, regional, and environmental information systems is surveyed by reference to specific examples. While the interactive cathode-ray tube terminal is found to be the most valuable medium, other output devices such as printers and plotters are discussed as well. Elements of computer cartography and data base organization are introduced, followed by discussions of urban information and transportation network design systems, a regional analysis system, and air and water quality information systems. Specific recommendations are given for further research in data base design and display techniques, and for promising new hardware for use in geographically distributed data systems."
"A large-area multiple-pen tablet system for three-dimensional data input is described. The large tablet area provides space for simultaneous use of several views of the three-dimensional object being digitized. The multiple pens enable the user to indicate a single point simultaneously in two such views, thus defining the three-dimensional position of the point. Five significant techniques are outlined. First, the large-area digitizing surface with multiple pens has proved to be an instrument very different from the more familiar single-pen small tablets. Second, a pair of two-dimensional positions is converted into a four-dimensional space and then back to three dimensions. Third, the specification of view areas, viewing directions, view positions, and coordinate axis is accomplished by giving examples directly in the viewing space rather than by specifying abstract viewing parameters. Fourth, an attitude about coordinate conversion using the inverse of a basis matrix is used throughout which automatically compensates for any tilt in the views on the tablet surface and any nonperpendicularity of the tablet axis. Fifth, the mathematics of converting from pairs of perspective views or pairs of photographs, while not new, is formulated simply in an appendix with several examples."
"The design of interactive graphic systems whose aim is good symbiosis between man and machine involves numerous factors. Many of those factors can be judged from the perspective of natural spoken conversation between two people. Guiding rules and principles for design of such systems are presented as a framework for a survey of design techniques for man-machine conversation. Attention is especially focused on ideas of action syntax structuring, logical equivalences among action devices, and avoidance of psychological blocks to communication."
"A discussion of some of the problems that arise in the design of high-level general-purpose device-independent graphics systems is presented. These problems are shown to be most easily solved by avoiding the use of complex display data structures prior to the picture transformation process. The use of a display file containing the transformed picture is proposed instead. This approach restricts the range of display equipment suitable for use as output devices but does not prevent the use of high-performance equipment. The use of a small set of high-level graphic input functions is also suggested and it is shown why this appears to be the best solution to the problem of programming graphic input devices. Included, too, is an outline description of a graphics system designed along the proposed lines."
"The spectrum of remote user stations with local processing ability, ranging from simple \"smart\" terminals to nearly self-sufficient intelligent systems called satellites, is considered. The emphasis is on the latter category, drawing on the authors' research on intelligent satellites for interactive graphics. The necessity of meeting a \"critical intelligence threshold\" criterion for the satellite is stressed, and some difficult problems and potential solutions in the division of labor between mainframe and satellite are briefly examined. It is hoped that many of the problems and solutions in satellite graphics apply to other areas such as network or satellite process control, experiment control, and signal processing."
"Computer applications to research in pure mathematics during the past several years have concentrated on using the data processing and logical capabilities of computers to carry out exhaustive and exhausting combinatorial or logical manipulations. Computers can also be used to suggest entirely new theorems and results, but this sort of application has not yet been particularly widely investigated. The addition of an interactive graphics terminal to even a small-to medium-sized computer enables one to construct an \"n-dimensional blackboard.\" On this device a mathematician can display and manipulate two-dimensional projections of n-dimensional geometrical constructs with much greater speed and accuracy than he can bring to his usual blackboard sketches. This sort of facility can be particularly helpful to the type of mathematician who thinks geometrically, and who relies a great deal on geometrical visualizations to suggest new theorems and proofs. Using control dials, joysticks, and other analog input devices, a mathematician can get immediate portrayal of the geometric effect of continuously varying parameters. He also has finger-tip control over the current values of these parameters, encouraging the development of a visceral feeling for the effect of these parameter variations. Early experience with such an \"n-dimensional blackboard,\" implemented in a prototype version on the microprogrammed minicomputer BUGS system at Brown University, is extremely promising. This BUGS blackboard, used in the area of singularities of algebraic curves in complex two-space, has suggested several new theorems and areas for further investigation. A description is given of the facilities of the BUGS blackboard. Also, the observed interaction between the physical facilities available on the BUGS system is mentioned, as well as the sorts of mathematical results that the use of these facilities in the BUGS blackboard seems to encourage."
 "A survey of basic ideas and approaches to computer art is given. Statements are presented by several computer artists as well as illustrations of their work. Comments are made about the relationship of computer graphics to art including a brief historical sketch of developments in this area. A conceptual framework is presented for interactive art objects as an art form. Suggestions are made about the future of computer art and the importance of a relationship between art and science."
"The large dynamic range required to obtain stable microwave images causes angular resolution to be a function of the sidelobe level. It is particularly significant in synthetic aperture radar. It is shown that a modest tapering of the synthetic aperture offers a dramatic potential improvement."
"It is shown that the poles of sharp cutoff low-pass filters, Butterworth- or Chebyshev-derived, can be obtained analytically for orders 3, 4, 6, and 8, through the solution of quadratic, cubic, or quartic algebraic equations. For the Butterworth case, higher order filters having a value of 3, 4, 6, 8 for the ratio (order of filter)/(order of zero) are also shown to have analytical solutions for the poles. Explicit solutions for the Butterworth-derived filter are given for third and fourth orders."
"An active RC realization of a lossy floating inductor is presented. The circuit uses two operational amplifiers--each in the unity gain connection--three resistors, and two capacitors, and has low L and Q sensitivities to passive as well as active components."
"A representation based on the similarity relations for voltage breakdown is shown to be useful in combining RF and dc voltage breakdown data. The representation for the uniform field geometry is given."
"It is shown that a combination of two MOS distributed RC elements can be designed to produce a tunable notch filter in which conductance modulation as well as MOS capacitance contribute to tunability, and the conductance modulation does not de-optimize the null."
"The grain-boundary model proposed by Mayadas et al. has been used to calculate the longitudinal-strain coefficient of resistivity of continuous polycrystalline silver film, with a thickness greater than the intrinsic mean free path, in terms of grain-size diameter. It has been found that the longitudinal-strain coefficient of resistivity increases with grain size, and its range is from zero to bulk value as the grain size goes from zero to very large value."
"New characteristics obtained with metal-insulator-metal (MIM) diodes are studied. These new characteristics are interpreted according to the tunneling process, and they are compared with the characteristics one can obtain with the IN23 diodes."
"The concept of feature selection in a nonparametric unsupervised learning environment is practically undeveloped because no true measure for the effectiveness of a feature exists in such an environment. The lack of a feature selection phase preceding the clustering process seriously affects the reliability of such learning. New concepts such as significant features, level of significance of features, and immediate neighborhood are introduced which result in meeting implicitly the need for feature slection in the context of clustering techniques."
"An approximate expression is found for the joint probability of instants of occurrence of photoevents in the case of low-level light and short observation times. The use of this expression in estimating the average count rate and the bandwidth of Gaussian-Lorentzian light is discussed."
"The convolution of two 12-MHz contradirected surface-acoustic wave signals on barium titanate has been observed. Overall conversion losses in the signal processing were approximately 60 dB. A 3-6-dB enhancement of convolved signal amplitude was achieved by the application of an external polarizing field to the output electrodes."
"The letter derives the mean radiation pattern of an aperture with random phase errors of the excitation when the errors are a stationary random, but not necessarily normal, function with given probability distribution and correlation coefficient. The case of exponential errors is investigated as an example."
"A simple and exact method to compute the cumulative distribution function directly from the characteristic function is proposed. This method is completely insensitive to errors associated with the divergence of the integral defining the Fourier transform of the distribution function."
"A wide variety of deep-level recombination centers have been observed at large concentrations in commercially available red GaAsP light-emitting diode p-n junctions. Similar defects have not been observed in GaP diodes. The characteristics, probable cause, and possible effect on luminescence efficiency of these deep-level defect centers are described."
"For two kinds of GaAs IMPATT diodes (flat and two-step doping profile) it is shown that an improved experimental noise measure is obtained by increasing temperature. This can be chiefly explained by a large decrease of GaAs electron saturated drift velocity, as temperature is increased."
"Output powers of 80-GHz band abrupt-junction IMPATT diodes are found to be limited not only by thermal restriction, but also by electronic restriction. Equations giving optimum junction diameters at different junction temperature rises are derived analytically, considering these two factors. When compared with the experimental results, they are verified to be useful for the optimum design of millimeter-wave IMPATT diodes."
"Switching and memory effects have been observed in diodes fabricated from phosphorus-implanted ZnSe. The materials having a carrier concentration of about 1018cm-3were implanted at 90 keV to an ion dose of 1016cm-2. The switching and memory phenomena are interpreted in terms of filling and emptying of the trapping centers in the implanted p-type layer."
"A convenient way of dividing a pyroelectric detector into a number of series elements to match an amplifier is described. The sensitivity of this arrangement to thermal radiation from moving warm bodies, using either an optical imaging system or an interposed grating, is discussed."
"The wavenumber and the group velocity of a magnetostatic surface wave propagating in the air gap between adjacent magnetic substrates is investigated theoretically. It is found that the propagation characteristic is similar to the characteristic of a magnetostatic surface wave in a ferrite slab and that the unidirectional transmission occurs when the two magnetic substrates have a different saturation magnetization."
"The Kalman conjecture is verified for certain transfer functions with only negative real poles and no numerator dynamics. The results are based on the off-axis circle criterion of Cho and Narendra and a consideration of the curvature of the Nyquist locus of the transfer function."
"A polynomial is fit to a sampled-data time series and updated at each new sample point with small memory and computation requirements. An exponentially weighted square-error criterion is used."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In the last two decades, the frequency-domain criteria of stability have continuously progressed, overcoming previous limitations. In quest of a more complete meaning of these criteria, this paper shows that (if one renounces the auxiliary assumptions which were required in the past) they imply a property of conditional stability (or dichotomy) for a special type of relations. When applied to conventional systems, the obtained results give a general and flexible approach to the problem of stability (the auxiliary assumptions which were previously required, are eliminated). The paper is self-contained and does not assume any previous training in the theory of stability. Therefore, it can be also used as an introduction, which starts almost from scratch and leads to a branch of contemporary research in this field."
"Earthquakes generate Rayleigh waves which travel along the surface of the earth about 20 times faster than the potentially destructive tsunami (if one is also generated) and reach distant points several hours before the tsunami. The Rayleigh wave excites an upward-propagating acoustic wave which, because of the exponential decrease in air density with height, increases to a large amplitude at ionospheric heights and produces ionization density changes in the ionosphere proportional to the amplitude and form of the wave. HF radio signals reflected from the ionosphere are Doppler-shifted by these motions and can be processed to produce a record which is a faithful reproduction of the Rayleigh wave. By analyzing the ionospheric record and tracing the Rayleigh wave back to the earthquake's epicenter, the characteristics of the earthquake can be determined. This information can then be used to deduce the probability that the earthquake generated a tsunami Instrumentation for a tsunami warning system based on this method is simple and inexpensive."
"The use of Fourier-transform techniques provides exact integral expressions for the forces on polygonal dc current coils moving over a conducting sheet. These expressions are applied to investigate magnetic levitation of proposed high-speed transportation. Extensive numerical data have been analyzed to determine the performance dependence of the system parameters such as velocity, coil shape, array configuration, clearance, and track thickness, conductivity and permeability. In terms of potential applications, a comparison between the superconducting repulsive and ferromagnetic attractive systems is given."
"Several properties of solitary waves that were measured on an easily constructed transmission line of very modest size (50 sections ∼1-m length) are described. Among the properties observed are their generation by a pulse or a sine wave, the recurrence phenomena, and the collision of two solitary waves."
"A tutorial discussion is presented on selected surface acoustic wave (SAW) devices for the use of engineers and electronic systems designers. Currently practical components for use in radar systems, communications systems, and as frequency domain filters are described. Emphasis is placed on nondispersive and dispersive delay lines, devices for generating and detecting various radar waveforms, devices for generating and detecting fixed and programmable biphase and multiphase codes, and broad-band and narrow-band filters. The device possibilities of several new approaches are described, including multistrip couplers, nonlinear convolvers, reflective structures, and overlay films. It is concluded that, while SAW devices have found many applications in large radar systems because of their size, cost effectiveness, and reliability, wide-scale applications, for example as frequency domain filters, will be needed to justify continued research in this field. Wide-scale applications will come as systems engineers realize the potential of these devices and confidently design them into their systems."
"A study is presented on the digital coding of speech by means of a straightforward approximation of the time waveform. In particular, the closely related discrete-time discrete-amplitude signal representations that are rather well known as pulse-code modulation (PCM), differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM), and delta modulation (DM) are discussed. Speech is recognized as a nonstationary signal, and emphasis is therefore placed on \"companding\" and \"adaptive\" strategies for waveform quantization and prediction. With signal-to-quantization-error ratio SNR as a performance measure, techniques are suggested which are most likely to be appropriate for given specifications of information rate. It is pointed out that error waveforms in speech quantization cannot be regarded as additive white noise, in general. This means that for finer assessments of speech coders, either relative or absolute, one needs to supplement SNR-based observations with corrections for subjective and perceptual factors. The latter seem to defy quantification as a rule. Invaluable, therefore, are explicit preference tests for direct comparisons of coders from a perceptual standpoint, and notions such as isopreference and multidimensional scaling are naturally appropriate in interpreting the results of such tests. Final points of concern are communication questions such as multiple encodings of speech by tandem coder-decoder pairs; conversions among different digital code formats; and the effects of additive and multiplicative noise in the communication channel, as manifest in the erroneous reception of speech-carrying bits. Information on these topics tends to be heterogeneous and nontheoretical, and the present digression into the subject is cursory by intent. The gramophone record accompanying this paper demonstrates some of the manipulations of speech that are discussed."
"Measurements of the surface resistance of plane surfaces of single-crystal copper were carried out at 35 GHz. They indicate the existence of an anomalous skin effect at room temperature. The surfaces were prepared in stress-free processes, annealed, and manipulated in purified hydrogen and argon."
"Previously used methods for converting a continued fraction function into a rational transfer function have been restricted to a special kind of continued fraction. This letter presents a method for inverting a general fraction; each partial quotient including the remainder could be a polynomial of s or s-1or both."
"Some properties of a set of orthogonal polynomials that play a key role in the numerical inversion of the Laplace transform are emphasized. These properties are exploited in showing that the inversion can be obtained by means of the eigenvalues and first component of the eigenvectors of a tridiagonal matrix related to the polynomials."
"The Poisson transform of the one-sided Laplace transform of a causal function is shown to be related to a one-sided Hilbert transform of the same function. Corollaries are indicated and applications are pointed out."
"A high-speed comparator consisting of a tunnel diode and a balanced four-transistor isolating amplifier is proposed. A low-frequency sensitivity of better than 10 mV and a hysteresis of approximately 300 mV were obtained. A maximum operating frequency in excess of 800 MHz was achieved."
"A new quartz multivibrator having a frequency stability better than 0.0005 percent between 3 and 12-V supply voltage is described. The temperature variations influence the multivibrator frequency as claimed for the crystal itself--the influence of the circuit is negligible."
"The influence of doping profile on the efficiency of GaAs Read-type IMPATT diodes has been studied experimentally. A diode with low breakdown voltage, or a diode with a low bias field in the drift region, gave the highest efficiency. The mechanism will be discussed, estimating the restriction of RF voltage amplitude and the change of phase relation between RF current and voltage."
"A technique of converting Fresnel-tranform holograms into Fourier-transform holograms by computer is discussed. A sound-wave hologram is processed with 64×64 sampling points and images are reconstructed optically from this processed binary hologram in the Fourier-transform plane, that is, a focal plane of a lens."
"A plane-wave theory for the integrated optics grating guide is presented. The characteristics of the guide are described using the wall reflection coefficient. Calculations are made of the attenuation, minimum-bend radius, and field distribution. Some methods of realizing the grating guide are proposed."
"An expression is derived for the minimum bandwidth which can be used for the dynamic tracking filter and a prediction is made of the maximum threshold extension that this bandwidth will allow."
"The concept of building an n-variable universal logic module (ULM-n) is considered, based on a single building block, unlike that of Banks and Majithia, who suggested two building blocks, namely, ULM-2 and ULM-3. The input control functions have been kept the same, namely, 2-bit binary codes. This basic building block is then used for the synthesis of switching functions."
"The real and imaginary parts of the dielectric constant of the plasma in silicon-controlled rectifier was studied as functions of frequency from 0.3 to 30 MHz for different injection levels of the current. The relaxation time was estimated to vary from 40 to 25 ns from lower injection levels to higher injection levels. The results also exhibit a nonlinear dependence of damping constant and plasma frequency on the injection level."
"Externally controlled mode coupling was observed in a 0.7-km optical waveguide fiber resulting in a significant pulse narrowing. The method of mode coupling generation requires that care be exercised in any mode coupling measurement. Observations on a 3-km waveguide failed to show evidence of mode coupling, allowing the possibility of practical external control."
"A real-time acoustic imaging system which is essentially the acoustic equivalent of the scanning electron-beam microscope is proposed. This system with piezoelectric detection is superior in theoretical performance to all the presently existing systems. A possible embodiment of such a system is described."
"An n-bit binary signal is considered to be a vector in an n-dimensional Euclid space. Based on the real number obtained by taking an inner product of the vectors in this space, a signal of normal density distribution will be generated."
"The slant Haar transform (SHT) is defined and related to ,the slant Walsh-Hadamard transform (SWHT). A fast algorithm for the SHT is presented and its computational complexity computed. In most applications, the SHT is faster and performs as well as the SWHT."
"Nonlinear behaviour of phase-locked loops with rapidly varying phase error is examined by using computer phase-plane analysis. The phase variation is modeled by a sinusoidal function. Threshold loop parameters are presented for both sinusoidal and sawtooth phase comparators."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Over-the-horizon (OTH) HF radar using sky-wave propagation via refraction by the ionosphere is capable of detecting targets at distances an order of magnitude greater than conventional microwave radar limited by the line of sight. Some of the characteristics, capabilities, and limitations of OTH radar based on the experience of the MADRE radar as developed by the Naval Research Laboratory are described. Also discussed is the application of OTH radar to air-traffic control and to the remote sensing of sea conditions."
"Theories and concepts for utilization of HF sea echo are compared and tested against surface-wave measurements made from San Clemente Island in the Pacific in a joint NRL/ITS/NOAA experiment. The use of first-order sea echo as a reference target for calibration of HF over-the-horizon radars is established. Features of the higher order Doppler spectrum can be employed to deduce the principal parameters of the wave-height directional spectrum (i.e., sea state); and it is shown that significant wave height can be read from the spectral records. Finally, it is shown that surface currents and current (depth) gradients can be inferred from the same Doppler sea-echo records."
"A pulse-Doppler backscatter radar operating in the HF band was used to test the feasibility to measure ocean surface motions in the North Atlantic Ocean under a variety of environmental conditions. Using the ionosphere as a part of the propagation path, data were collected at ranges from 600 to 2200 nmi. Environmental conditions included a relatively small hurricane, a large storm, and a relatively calm ocean. The Doppler data were converted to wind vectors and compared with weather data taken at the same times and places. Preliminary results indicate that there is, in general, good agreement between wind directions as determined from the radar data and this is indicated on the weather chart at all ranges and under all of the environmental conditions encountered. The agreement in wind strengths is fair to good, but at present reliability is mainly limited to the first-hop data because of multiple propagation modes. Improvements in this technique can be expected from refinement in the theoretical models of scattering, and in developing radar operation methods that minimize multipath responses."
"The problems of low-angle tracking over the earth's surface are explored in the light of rough-surface scattering theory. A detailed model of diffuse scattering is constructed which agrees with available test data and which permits the power distributions in radar coordinates to be estimated. Using this model, the potential performance of various techniques proposed for avoidance of multi-path is evaluated, Several are found effective in maintaining tracks of reasonable accuracy down to one-fourth beamwidth above the horizon, but no generally practical solution to height measurement below that angle appears available."
"The evolution and state of development of the radars used in the Ground-Controlled Approach (GCA) systems of the U.S. Air Force is described. Emphasis is placed on the radar requirements of this application and the evolution made possible by the advances in component technology. We first review the concept of GCA operation and show how this leads to the requirements of the two radars in the system. Next we discuss the early history of GCA and the AN/MPN-1, the first operational system. The evolution of the GCA radars since the AN/MPN-1 is then summarized. Finally, we describe in more detail the AN/TPN-19. This is the most recent GCA system to be developed, and it makes effective use of array technology, frequency diversity, monopulse, pulse compression, and computer control."
"During the past two years a program has been carried out to show how new techniques can greatly improve the performance of radars used for air-traffic control. A survey of problems associated with presently used radars was undertaken. This survey indicates that primary radar in an automated air-traffic control system can be made significantly more effective by the use of new techniques. The radar's handling of extraneous reflections (clutter) is critical to its performance. Three types of interfering clutter were found to predominate: ground clutter, weather clutter, and angels. Angels are generally accepted to be radar returns from flocks of birds. In addition, second-time-around clutter is often troublesome. For each type of clutter, all known remedies for improving the signal-to-clutter ratio were studied and radar systems were configured using appropriate sets of remedies. Some specific solutions incorporated in the resulting radar systems are: a) the use of linear large dynamic range, near-optimum digital signal processors to filter signals from clutter, b) the use of electronically step-scanned antennas to improve the correlation of aircraft and clutter returns from pulse to pulse, c) the use of multiple PRF's instead of staggered PRF's together with coherent transmitters to keep second-time-around clutter returns well correlated while still overcoming blind speeds, d) the use of a fine grained ground clutter map to give superclutter visibility on tangential targets, and e) the use of lower operating frequencies to greatly reduce weather and angel returns. Two demonstration radar systems have been implemented, an S-band radar using a mechanically rotating antenna and a UHF radar using an electronically step-scanned cylindrical antenna. Experimental results are described."
"Radar echoes from meteorological targets have existed almost from the time that radar was first used. In this paper, an equation is presented which relates the echo power to a characteristic of the cloud or precipitation particles within the radar pulse volume. Some examples of how radar has been used for operational purposes are given; these include a description of the utility of radar for storm detection, how radar can be used as an aid to weather forecasting for both the public and aviation interests, and also how radar can be applied to help solve some hydrological problems. Significant research results on the nature of atmospheric structure and processes as derived with the help of radar are presented. Doppler radar has played a prominent role in the investigation of storm dynamics, and high-power high-resolution radars have been used for studying the development and nature of clear-air turbulence and convective processes in the clear air. Recent trends in meteorological radars are indicated and suggestions are set forth which relate to the improved use of radar for operations."
"The monitoring of bird movements and flight characteristics by radar can contribute to an understanding of radar clutter and bird migration, can help to alleviate the hazard of collisions between birds and aircraft, and may constitute a useful form of environmental monitoring. Most conventional surveillance radars can detect birds readily but are very much limited in their ability to identify birds. The recording of amplitude and Doppler signatures, however, may allow identification as to size and type and has the potential for increasing knowledge concerning bird flight."
"The quality of coherent radar images is affected by several factors inherent in the target scattering phenomenon and in the radar system. Certain of these factors, such as resolution, image fluctuation, assumed amplitude cell statistics, noncoherent smoothing, background noise, and the film response, are investigated in detail. Simple statistical models of an extend target are constructed in order to simulate images and to show how these effects are related. It is shown that resolution is the dominant factor that affects image quality. The relative importance of all other factors is highly dependent on resolution."
"High angular resolution is a desirable property of mapping and reconnaissance radar systems. The synthetic-aperture principle reduced the beamwidth of airborne radar by as much as two orders of magnitude. Notwithstanding the long interest in the subject, a quantitative relationship is lacking between beamwidth and resolution. This paper is an attempt to overcome this deficiency. Among its several results, it is shown that the angular resolution of synthetic-aperture radar can be considerably poorer than expected. It is also shown that a modest tapering of the synthetic aperture in those cases offers significant improvement."
"The production of topographic maps requires two kinds of information. First, the detail to be placed on the map sheet must be identified. Second, the positions of the various objects and features must be measured in three dimensions. Current airborne radar technology provides the means to satisfy both of these requirements in adverse weather and at any time, day or night. Radar used specifically for this purpose employs synthetic-aperture techniques to obtain fine resolution measurement in two dimensions and interferometry to obtain the third measurement."
"The objectives of the Apollo 17 Lunar Sounder Experiment (ALSE) were to detect subsurface geologic structures, to generate a continuous lunar profile, and to image the moon a radar wavelengths. The first objective is generally impossible on Earth, but is possible on the moon because of the very low EM attenuation found in lunar rocks. A three-wavelength synthetic-aperture radar (SAR) operating at 60 m, 20 m, and 2 m (5, 15, and 150 MHz) was designed to attain these objectives. The design choices reflected a balance of scientific requirements versus Apollo mission and hard-ware constraints. The most difficult choice was that of wavelength, since longer wavelengths have the potential for deeper subsurface penetration at the expense of depth resolution. Shorter wavelengths enhance the ability to generate surface images and accurate profiles. The sounding requirement led to a system requirement for large dynamic range and precise sidelobe control. The radar data from the lunar mission were recorded on photographic film in a conventional SAR format, and were returned to Earth for processing. A combination of optical and digital processing and exploitation techniques was applied to the scientific interpretation of the data. Some preliminary results from the lunar mission have been obtained. The system design and data exploitation techniques developed in support of the ALSE experiment show considerable promise for eventual application to earth-resource survey radar systems."
"Test results and key principles are given for a radar altimeter designed for meteorological balloons. The instrument, which weighs 160 g and consumes 0.7 W, will fill a gap in meteorological, sensing using balloons-an area where pressure altitude was formerly the preveiling reference. The instrument is basically a delay-lock radar utilizing a superregenerative RF stage. Long-term absolute accuracy of ±10 m and short-term stability of better than- 2 m rms were measured at altitudes of 20 km."
"The Skylab S-193 altimeter experiment utilizes a 10- and 100-ns pulse length, 13.9-GHz earth-pointed radar system to obtain earth-surface backscatter measurements from the Skylab spacecraft. Objectives of the experiment are to obtain precision measurements of surface profile for uses in geodesy, oceanography, and earth physics, and to measure radar-signal characteristics from an earth-orbit geometry to provide design information for future radar remote-sensors. The technical approach is that of measuring the power impulse response of the scattering surface. The hardware is designed to operate in five modes: waveform or impulse-response measurement and altitude determination; radar cross-section experiment; signal correlation experiment; 10-ns pulse-compression evaluation; and nadir-seeker experiment. This program is the first reported instance in which these quantities have been measured from orbital conditions. The experimental approach utilized and the post-flight data-processing requirements are discussed and preliminary results from the first manned Skylab mission are presented."
"This paper surveys the field of automotive radar and represents an expansion of a previous paper, \"Automotive Radar-Problems and Promises\" [1]. Both the roadside environment in which the car and driver operate and on-board physical environments in which the electronics must function are treated. Applications involving speed sensing, predictive crash sensing, obstacle detection, braking, and station keeping are addressed. Current radar system state of the art is reviewed. Considerations relating to target discrimination, weather penetration, and basic radar system parameters are covered. Modulation techniques for range determination are examined, and radar system configurations are discussed in an effort to identify the advantages and disadvantages of each. It is concluded that although considerable development work remains before radar becomes a practical automotive system, significant progress has been made."
"The 1973 Nobel Prize for Physics has been awarded to Esaki, Giaever, and Josephson for their contributions to the subject of electron tunneling in solids. This is a thoroughly modern subject, in the sense that it can be understood only in terms of the wave mechanics of the electron, and has no classical counterpart whatever. It is the work of Esaki, Giaever, and Josephson which underlies the present status of tunneling in solids. Twenty years ago it was a neglected and somewhat discredited subject. Now, thanks to their pioneering experimental and theoretical discoveries, it is the source of some of the most elegant devices and phenomena of solid-state physics, and the theory is one of great intellectual beauty. This year’s Nobel Prize in Physics is a well-deserved recognition of that fact. "
   "The effect of transients in phased arrays caused by the time variation of element phases is considered. The case in which the beam is continuously scanned is analyzed and the deterioration of main beam studied in some detail. For the linear scan, an upper limit on the scanning rate is found such that there is negligible effect on the pattern."
"Active circuits containing three-operational amplifiers are presented from which various filter transfer functions can be easily obtained via open-circuiting appropriate passive elements. Any element value of the circuit depends only on a single coefficient of the biquadratic voltage transfer function realized."
"A simple technique is proposed for the generation of high-speed variable repetition rate pulse-trains by summing the output pulses from a series at variable delay step recovery diode circuits. The diode switching times determine the maximum repetition rate, which is several gigahertz."
"Statements of Gordon and Anderson denying the utility of further research on potential materials for blue light-emitting diodes (LED's) are contested. It is shown that the dominant luminescence from sometime commercial SiC devices cannot arise from intrinsic recombinations as implied by Loebner, but may indeed involve free-to-bound recombinations at deep levels, as previously suggested. Finally, comments are made about the current state of our understanding of ZnS-powder EL cells."
"The familiar quadratic form [1] of junction FET characteristics will be shown to be a result of Taylor series approximation of the Shockley [2] mathematical model."
"The intensity of electroluminescence has been found to increase for benzene and to decrease for n-hexane, cyclohexane, chloroform, and n-hexane mixed with ethyl alcohol, with increasing hydrostatic pressure. No electroluminescence has been observed in carbon tetrachloride at fields up to the value close to breakdown strength. The results are briefly discussed in terms of electrohydro-dynamic motion and impact excitation of molecules."
"Expressions are derived for the electroacoustic fields inside a linear transducer in terms of the volume sources and the fields on the surface of the transducer."
"The low-frequency noise performance has been determined for MOSFET's prepared by adding varying amounts of gaseous HCl to the oxygen during thermal oxidation of the silicon. It appears that the surface state noise is significantly reduced, and that the remaining noise levels are due to thermal generation centers in the substrate."
"Nyquist's third criterion for distortionless trasmission is that the area under the system response during a unit interval should be propotional to the signal value. It is shown here that for a system characteristic F(ω) to satisfy this criterion, F(w) multiplied by [(sin ωT/2)/(ωT/2)] should satisfy Nyquist's first criterion."
"Iterative algorithms such as Newton's method for square-root extraction offer attractive low-cost techniques for function computation but invariably operate at low-speed. Such algorithms are even more feasible when one considers their use in conjunction with currently available microprocessors. In this letter, two particular iterative algorithms are described and evaluated. These are for the computation of arc (cos (p))/(π) and cos (πp). Error results are given which show that the accuracy for many instrumentation-type applications is tolerable when a small number of iterations, say, 16, is involved."
 "A multielement surface acoustic wave transducer array of very small aperture and separation has been fabricated on PZT substrates and the phase Scanning of the resultant acoustic beam from such a transducer array has been demonstrated. In addition to its use as an acoustic beam scanner, the transducer array may form a new type of signal processor, requiring no phase shifters or delay lines, for sonars and electromagnetic phased-array antenna applications."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Applications of computers in the planning of power system generation, transmission, and distribution are surveyed. Following a brief description of significant developments in the growth of these applications over the 22 years since the first published paper, the stages in planning (policy, standardization, outline, and detail design) and the mathematical techniques which can be applied to the numerical solution of quantifiable problems arising in these stages are outlined. The greatest concern is with the technical and economic studies commonly used in the major areas of planning, i.e., load forecasting, assessment of generation capacity and mix, transmission and distribution network development. Approaches using simulation and optimization techniques are described. Reference is made to developments in corporate planning."
"A dramatic transformation in system monitoring and control is taking place in the electric utility industry. New control centers are being equipped with multiprocessor real-time computers scanning and controlling the generation and transmission system via high-speed data-acquisition subsystems and interacting with the human operator via dynamic, color, graphic displays. Within the computer as many as a hundred or more programs are available to run in a multiprogramming environment in response to changing power-system conditions and to operator's demands. The main objective of this new development in on-line control is the enhancement of the security of the power system in order to maintain a high reliability of electric power service. The concept of security control is discussed and the noteworthy features of its present state of development in recently designed and installed control centers are described."
"A review is given of probability methods which have been proposed for the assessment of the security of operating electric power systems. The goal of all the methods presented is to provide the system operator with a consistent, on-line, indication of system security in the near-term future as a guide for operating decisions. Mathematical models used in the various methods are described and data requirements are discussed. Finally, areas of desirable future investigation are outlined."
"A discussion of the philosophy of modeling of three-phase transmission lines, three-phase transformers, three-phase generators, and power system loads is presented. Although the topic is very basic, the material covered is not all conventional. Single-phase representation of a three-phase power system is discussed in detail. Assumptions usually employed in the power industry are stated. Also discussed is the mathematical representation of a non-symmetrical three-phase power system in which the symmetrical-component method is not applied. An important aspect is the study of the models used in present-day problems as well as the models that may be required in the near future."
"A survey is presented on the currently available numerical techniques for power-system load-flow calculation using the digital computer. The review deals with methods that have received widespread practical application, recent attractive developments, and other methods that have interesting or useful characteristics. The analytical bases, computational requirements, and comparative numerical performances of the methods are discussed. Attention is given to the problems and techniques of adjustments in load-flow solutions, and the suitabilities of various methods for modern applications such as security monitoring and optimal load flow are examined."
"A piecewise procedure called diakoptics is described. An overview of the theory is presented, and a summary of the applications that have been carried out to date in the power industry has been included. This paper is not a mere recapitualtion, but contains a number of new ideas which have not been presented previously. Only relevant mathematics have been included, and derivations or detailed mathematical presentations that appear elsewhere have been referenced. The paper starts with a historical review in which the classic problem through which diakoptics was conceived is presented. The tearing cases considered include torn subdivisions radially attached as well as torn subdivisions not attached. Only the most basic cases are considered for brevity and clarity of presentation."
"Models of synchronous machines which have been developed and used to analyze problems in the electric utility industry are described. The development of alternative models, the transitions among the models, and the relations between problem and model are demonstrated. Lower order models using standardized data are used in multigenerator stability studies. Machine and system tests and the computer results of simulating these tests are reviewed. The areas of agreement and differences between simulation and test for alternate models point to ways in which improvements may be made in the economy and accuracy of computer simulations. This leads to suggestions for future work and a discussion of an IEEE Working Group in this field."
"The transient stability study is used to examine the dynamic behavior of a power system following a disturbance. Transient stability programs have grown in the size of the power system under study, in the duration of the study, and in the magnitude of the disturbance. Each prime mover is represented by as few as two or as many as forty ordinary differential equations. These equations are coupled to a set of algebraic equations (two per node) which describe the network. Available programs frequently use explicit fixed step integration methods and the sequential solution of the differential and algebraic equations. Recent advances in solution methods have been directed toward implicit integration techniques and the simultaneous solution of the whole set of differential-algebraic equations. The transient stability problem, the unit models currently in use, and recent advances in solution methods are briefly reviewed. A dynamic stability program is described which incorporates comprehensive dynamic models of prime movers; the results of several experiments using this program are presented."
"Important power system planning and operation problems have been formulated as mathematical optimization problems. Such problems as the economic dispatch, in many of its facets; var scheduling and allocation; pollution dispatch; maximum interchange; hydrothermal unit commitment and dispatch; generation, transmission, and distribution expansion planning; maintenance scheduling and substation switching, have been formulated and solved. Modern mathematical optimization techniques, such as nonlinear, quadratic, linear, integer and dynamic programming and their many combinations and extensions, have been exploited. Some of the formulations and solutions to these problems as presented in the recent literature within the power systems field are reviewed. The large number of papers available is a measure of the current immense activity in this area. Attempts are made to point out some specific areas where more work needs to be done."
"A static state estimator is a collection of digital computer programs which convert telemetered data into a reliable estimate of the transmission network structure and state by accounting for 1) small random metering-communication errors; 2) uncertainties in system parameter values; 3) bad data due to transients and meter-communication failures; and 4) errors in the network structure due to faulty switch-circuit breaker status information. The overall state estimation process consists of four steps: 1) hypothesize mathematical structure; 2) estimate state vector; 3) detect bad data and/or structure errors; and identify bad data and/or structure errors. The problem is characterized by high dimensionality and the need for real-time solutions using limited computer time and storage. Various methods of solution are discussed and compared."
"Switching operations, faults, and other disturbances produce surges on transmission lines and oscillations in transformer and generator windings. Such electromagnetic transients have primarily been studied with transient network analyzers since the late 1930's. In recent years, digital computer programs have been de-. veloped which make simulation by digital computer competitive. The solution techniques of such programs are described, and their usefulness is illustrated with practical examples. Possibilities for further improvements are mentioned."
"A historical development of mechanical and electronic differential analyzers as well as the significant developments in simulation techniques are discussed. Present-day application of modern analog and hybrid computers to electric power systems are presented. Included are the simulation of electric machines, static converter drives, transmission lines, and dc power systems. Special-purpose analog and hybrid computers are also discussed briefly. The material presented in this paper should enable an informed evaluation of the capabilities of analog and hybrid computers in the analysis of power system problems."
"The analysis of power system performance has always been enhanced by close interaction between engineer and computation, and recent developments in high-speed displays, minicomputer capacity, and computational technology are encouraging major revisions of computing practices for power system analysis. A comprehensive power system analysis package, PSS/2, is described which has been developed specifically for use with dedicated computers. This dedicated computer approach allows load flow, short-circuit, and dynamic simulation work, data base maintenance, and printed report preparation to be handled in the interactive mode at lower cost than could be possible by alternative batch or time-shared computing methods. The subjects covered are data organization, computational techniques, user interface, and operational experience."
"The application of a doubly charged boron (11B+2) beam to the formation of p-type drift regions in symmetrical Ka-band double-drift silicon IMPATT diodes is discussed. Devices fabricated with these implanted impurity distributions exhibited output powers ∼1.2 W with 10-percent conversion efficiencies over the frequency range of 29 to 39 GHz."
 "A procedure for transforming a rational function F(z) to another rational function G(s) under a transformation z=(P)s is outlined."
"The performance characteristics of pulsed TRAPATT amplifiers in X-band with microstrip RF circuits are described. The amplifiers utilize the second-harmonic extraction technique to produce output powers between 10 and 20 W with efficiencies larger than 10 percent and bandwidths of several hundred megahertz."
"A technique for the determination of relatively short carrier lifetimes (< 1 ns) is presented. By measuring the frequency dependence of the diffusion capacitance of a one-sided abrupt-junction GaAs diode, the minority carrier lifetime can be obtained. The method has the advantages that it is repeatable after exposing the diode to further processing, the diode can be mounted in a convenient package so that no special handling precautions are necessary, and the method can be automated."
"The Green's function method of finding the voltage due to an arbitrary charge density is related to a convolution integral for simple geometries. The fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm is used to calculate the voltages on the grid points and it is argued that significant reduction of computer time is achieved for a large number of grid points."
"Two time domain representations for vestigial sideband signals, one believed to be new, are examined and compared. The new representation has its greatest application to signal design for pulse transmission systems."
"Computation of values of a transcendental function by numerically integrating the differential equation of which it is the solution is proposed as a useful approach for computer time saving. This saving in the total computation time may be very large, often by an order of magnitude, and becomes most significant when many values of a function are to be computed at closely spaced values of the argument."
"Inversely operated transistors show a gain-frequency characteristic whose logarithmic slope is a function of the current density."
 "In a 20-GHz digital radio relay, data on attenuation, cross-polarization discrimination, and error rate during rainfall are obtained and presented for consideration."
"As the internal resistance r of an ohmmeter's battery grows, it causes erroneously low readings on the meter's lowest range. This error is easily corrected if a single known resistance can be measured. The meter will also readily indicate the value of r."
"A new method for determining the sampled output of a dyadic-invariant linear system in response to a sampled input is presented. Dyadic differential operators are represented by matrices, and it is not necessary to generate the dyadic convolution matrix from the discretized system transfer function."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Phenomena associated with the propagation and manipulation of light in thin-film dielectric waveguides are presently the object of considerable research effort, directed toward possible applications in communications and information processing. The theory of dielectric waveguide modes is reviewed, and the topics of directional coupling, input-output coupling, modulation, and distributed feedback laser sources are treated on the basis of coupled-mode theory. A summary of experimental results for each of the guided-wave optical phenomena covered by the theory is also presented."
"A consolidated review is presented of recent analytical studies of electromagnetic waves propagating over inhomogeneous surfaces. Emphasis is on smooth boundaries that can be characterized by a local surface impedance. A general integral equation formulation is developed for this situation. A number of special cases are then considered and various methods of solution are described. Various concrete examples are presented, particular with regard to effects that occur at coastlines. Extensions to certain types of terrain features are also treated using the closely related mode-matching method. Some controversial aspects of very recent work on the subject are descried briefly."
"A family of novel devices for electronic imaging is described and several different realizations age presented. Direct electronic Fourier transform (DEFT) cameras employ coupling between surface strain waves, the image intensity, and electrical charge to produce electronic signals representing the spatial Fourier transform of the image at a single pair of terminals. This signal can be easily processed to accomplish pattern recognition, all-electronic image magnification (zoom) and stabilization, motion detection, and focusing. Reproduction of the image is expected to be accomplished by a light valve employing strain-induced modulation of uniform light. Experimental results for light intensity variation in one dimension are reviewed for a silicon chip bulk acoustic wave camera and for a CdS surface wave camera. Some preliminary results are also reported for a fused quartz elastobirefringent light valve image reconstruction device."
"Analytical modeling of communication receivers to account for their nonlinear response to multiple input signals is discussed. The method is based on the application of the Wiener-Volterra analysis of nonlinear functionals. The derived analytical relations were embodied in a computer program which provides nonlinear transfer functions of large circuits specified by their parameters. This method was applied to the prediction of behavior of communication receivers in the presence of interference. Examples illustrate the method and demonstrate its validity in the small-signal region."
"The first electron bombarded semiconductor (EBS) devices have recently appeared on the market. These devices have already demonstrated that EBS has considerable promise as an important new electron device for power amplification and control. EBS devices are described with particular emphasis on power devices. The basic EBS principle, some of the analysis used in device design, general considerations in designing the various elements of the device, overall device design, semiconductor processing, and reliability considerations are discussed. Predictions of general directions for future work are made. Some historical information is also presented as well as a brief comparison with other competing power devices."
"A simple technique for finding the matrix which relates the coefficients of the numerator of a proper rational function F(s) to the coefficients of the partial fraction expansion of F(s) is presented. As a byproduct of this technique, the important generalized Vandermonde matrix and its inverse are found."
"The current-voltage characteristics of a new circuit element showing negative resistance are described and analyzed. The device is an enhancement field-effect transistor interacting with a bipolar transistor."
"A new class of time-variant digital spectral mapping filters is presented, which allows the implementation of a wider range of mapping characteristics than realizations proposed previously, and considerably greater versatility in programming."
"A current drop of 41.5 percent and a switching time of 110 ps is reported for a 10-µm supercritically doped n+-n-n+GaAs transferred electron device operated as a bistable switch into a 25-Ω resistive load. An investigation to check that no microwave oscillations occur is presented."
"The feasibility of using integral equation techniques to predict EM fields in biological tissues is demonstrated by analyzing the scattering from arbitrary cylinders composed of lossy dielectric materials. For the circular cylinder case, good agreement is obtained between moment method solutions and exact solutions. To show the applicability to arbitrary geometries, an elliptical cylinder is also considered."
"A simple method for computing the moments of a log Rayleigh distribution from Euler's constant and existing tables of values of the Riemann zeta function is given."
"A frequency and quotient-variation method is established for the identification of linear, multivariable, time-invariant, stable systems. The purpose of this letter is to offer an algebraic procedure to obtain a transfer-function matrix of a multivariable system from the available frequency response data. The second Cauer matrix form of continued fraction is used as a basis."
"A parallel-plate waveguide is used to determine wide-band RF (285 to 4000 MHz) absorption characteristics of 96- to 390-g rats and biological-phantom prolate spheroidal bodies. The results compare well to those of free space irradiation. At resonance, for E along the long dimension (a) power deposition of 9 times higher then that for H||a orientation is observed."
"A method for computing the efficiency of a three-phase induction motor using the input phassor currents for blocked motor, no load, and running with load, is presented."
"It is shown that at fast scanning speeds the radar antenna beam contains frequency components other than the transmitted frequency, resulting in a frequency spread in the echo from a fixed target which is distinct from that arising from finite time on target."
"Charge storage injection lasers under transient forward bias has been found to be responsible for the difference in the observed threshold for a driving current pulse with and without another pulse preceding it. Estimated relative threshold currents of two successive pulses as a function of pulse spacing based on the charge storage model agreed reasonably well with the experiment."
"A variational calculus approach is used to study quadratic optimization of linear time-delayed distributed parameter systems with distributed and boundary control function. The canonical equations are derived for the necessary condition of optimality. Then the Riccati equations are obtained and their computational solution is discussed."
"It was recently shown that by simple matrix operation on the system equations, it is possible to obtain \"row sensitivity\" and \"column sensitivity\" in the steady state and the frequency domain. These results are given in more general time-domain form. Also, a network interpretation for adjoint sensitivity network is discussed."
"Existing forms of conventional electronic cross correlator cannot meet the increased bandwidth requirements for wide-band system testing. It is shown here that a technique based on the facilities of a sampling oscilloscope can provide very wide-band operation and yet requires only low-speed logic and a low-frequency multiplier. The method also lends itself to computer operation."
"Network calculations can be made to account for frequency dependance on network elements. The method utilizes a current source model for synchronous machines. Since use is made of the sparse bus admittance matrix of the network, the method is suitable for large-scale power system stability studies."
"An extension of the lateral thermal instability effects that give rise to second breakdown in transistors is presented. It is seen that regions where intrinsic ionization occurs are not localized \"spots\" but are present in the center of the emitter and along its entire length, giving rise to \"hot cylinders.\""
"Undesired waveguide modes can be excited in a strip transmission line shielded in a wide metallic channel. A mode suppressor which suppresses selectively the waveguide modes over a certain frequency range is described. This technique allows a substantial increase of the channel and dielectric substrate dimensions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Adequate simulation testing for radiation effects requires knowledge of radiation effects mechanisms to relate test environments to operational environments. In order to scale the effect with radiation type, spectrum, or time dependence, the response must be separated into different radiation effects, The basic separation is into displacement, charge-transfer, and ionization effects. Within each category short-lived and long-term responses must be considered. Specific simulation facilities can be used to produce particular combinations of effects. Pulsed and steady-state neutron sources (reactor or accelerators), flash X-ray machines, and electron linear accelerators are particularly useful for producing the effects of the radiation from a nuclear explosion. Steady-state electron and proton accelerators are especially appropriate for simulating space radiation. In the first case the problem is to produce the high radiation rates; in the second to qualify accelerated testing. Many other simulation problems fall between these two limits."
"A brief survey of ionization effects in devices is given, with a special attention to important research problems. This paper is intended not only to indicate the interrelationships between papers presented at the IEEE Annual Conferences on Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects from 1966 to 1973, but also to indicate the gaps left and the future possibilities for work. The environments causing problems are listed, the materials and devices involved are tabulated as a matrix, and the key problems of the present and future are singled out for special attention."
"The status of understanding of defect creation in electronic materials, primarily semiconductors, is reviewed. Included are a survey of threshold values and a discussion of the various parameters on which the energy dependence of damage production depends. The subjects of subthreshold damage and ionization-produced damage are also discussed."
"Experimental measurements have been made of photon-induced charge transfer between plane-parallel electrodes. X-rays from a pulsed X-ray source were directed at near-normal incidence onto plane-parallel electrodes, and the current which flowed between the electrodes during the X-ray pulse was measured. Quantities obtained include bulk charge transfer in several dielectric materials; forward and reverse electron emission from Al, Cu, and Au surfaces; and secondary electron emission coefficients for these metals and selected dielectrics. Measured values for charge transfer and surface emission are compared with calculations."
"Enhanced diffusion of impurities in solids at elevated temperatures under exposure to high-energy particles is well known and is largely attributable to the generation of excess vacancies. This paper deals with the morn subtle effects that can be caused by ionizing radiation (below the threshold for atomic displacements) and can occur even at or below room temperature. In recent years, enhancement of diffusion under the action of ionizing radiation has been observed both in insulators and in semiconductors of the diamond lattice type. It has become evident that analytical results obtained by techniques using strongly ionizing radiation (for instance, electron or ion microprobes), or obtained on samples exposed to ionizing radiaticm beforehand (as in neutron activation work) can be very misleading if the possible alteration of the diffusion profile by the ionizing radiation is not taken into account. Another source of error in neutron activation work is the transfer of impurities from the container material itself to the sample surface, followed by radiation enhanced diffusion into the sample. An attempt is made to give a brief survey of the enhancement effects due to ionizing radiation reported in the literature so far, as well as of the explanations proposed for these effects. Some recent work by the authors is also included."
"Silicon metallization systems have become increasingly sophisticated in order to tailor contact properties such as adhesion, electrical conductivity, barrier height, and long-term reliability. These contact properties are highly susceptible to solid-solid reactions, typically involving atom migration over distances less than 1 µm. Analysis by monoenergetic ion beam irradiation is a valuable new materials characterization technique to optimize process parameters and contact lifetime. Energy analysis of the backscattered ions allows nondestructive determination of the depth distribution of the atomic composition of thin multilayered systems. Recent application of this technique has provided extensive data on the energetics and kinetics of interdiffusion and compound formation for thin-film metallizations on silicon, particularly those used in silicon device technology. After a brief introduction to the technique, the results of these studies are reviewed and systematized. Interdiffusion results are treated for silicon-metal and metal-metal reactions. Distinction is made between cases where internal surface transport effects dominate and cases where compound formation dominates. Examples are taken from each of these areas and are discussed in terms of metallurgical properties."
"A technique has been developed for the determination of the concentration and Hall mobility of majority carriers in n on p homoepitaxial silicon using micro-Hall samples. These devices are essentially the same size as monolithic integrated circuits, and, since junction isolated integrated circuit processes are used in the manufacture of these samples, they have the properties of as-processed integrated-circuit materials. After initial characterization, the samples were exposed to pulse reactor spectrum neutron fluences at room temperature. Subsequent characterization permitted the determination of majority carrier removal rates and mobility dagradation. As expected, the carrier removal rate for epitaxial silicon at the onset of electrically observable displacement damage is essentially the same as that for bulk silicon with the same resistivity, 2.65 neutrons-1cm-1. Mobility degradation is not significant at room temperature. Low-temperature characterization indicates the importance of damage clusters on mobility when charge scattering dominates over lattice scattering."
"The particle bombardment and other effects occurring in plasma systems used to process semiconductor devices have been described and characterized, in particular in the dc and RF diode and dc triode systems commonly used for processing. DC diode systems and RF diode systems are shown to cause degradaztion in processed devices due to energetic particle bombardment, as do de triode systems. In triode systems magnetic field protection is of assistance; in dc and RF diodes, grid systems may be necessary. Since the degradation of processed devices is often not annealable, some protection of devices from degradation during processing may be essential."
"Ion implantation is finding increased usage in device fabrication owing to precise control and reproducibility of the charge and depth distribution of the implanted-dopant profile. The MOST illustrates the application of charge control through threshold-voltage adjustment and though predepostion for drive-in diffusion to form complementary devices. A compilation of range-energy data for B, P, and As in silicon is given along with factors which influence the implanted-dopant distributions after anneal treatments. Implantation procedures are presented for high-frequency bipolar transistors which depend critically on both charge and depth control of the emitter and base profiles. Another important aspect of ion implantation is lateral control, a feature which is necessary for high packing density circuits. Disorder effects associated with implantation through oxide masks are discussed. A brief account of implantation for GaAs devices is also included."
"There has been considerable progress in the direct generation of microwave power using two-terminal semiconductor devices during the last decade. Permanent and transient radiation effects on bulk (Gunn and LSA) and junction (IMPATT, TRAPATT, and BARITT) transit-time microwave diodes are reviewed. Emphasis is placed upon relating the primary effects of radiation to the physics of device operation. The principal permanent damage is attributed to carrier removal effects, impairing the RF performance of bulk diodes below 1014neutrons/cm2and junction transit-time diodes at fluences near 1015neutrons/cm2. The principal transient effect is the generation of free carriers by ionizing radiation, affecting the RF performance of bulk diodes above 109rad/s and junction transit-time diodes at dose rates near 108rad/s."
"The radiation-induced degradation of semiconductor material parameters is reviewed. These results are related to the degradation of semiconductor-device performance. Design techniques for minimizing the radiation-induced degradation are evaluated. Emphasis is placed on the effects of neutron-produced displacement damage on devices and on the effects of ionizing radiation on MOS structures. Transient ionization effects and circuit latchup are considered. The present degree of understanding of radiation effects in silicon devices is summarized."
"Methods of designing an asynchronous divide-by-N odd-number counter with 50/50 duty-cycle output are presented. The counter can be implemented by an EXCLUSIVE OR gate associated with a divide-by-(N + 1)/2 counter and a flip-flop, or by the combination of EXCLUSIVE OR gates and flip-flops."
"A new type of acoustooptic tunable filter using noncollinear interaction in TeO2has been fabricated. Dynamic bandwidth of the filter is in the range between 0.42 and 0.75 µm and corresponding acoustic frequency is between 85 and 40 MHz. Efficiency up to 90 percent is obtained at the electrical power input of 50-400 mW and resolution of 12-25 Å is attained experimentally."
"The lowest loss optical waveguides to date are those of high silica composition prepared by vapor deposition. The present article describes a method for producing waveguides having a GeO2-SiO2core and SiO2cladding. These combine low loss with relatively large index differences between core and cladding, Large index differences create problems in optical communication systems because of dispersion effects. Means of index grading so as to decrease dispersion are also described."
"Optical waveguide fibers have been produced by a chemical-vapor-deposition technique with optical attenuations as low as 1.1 dB/km at 1.02 µm. The application of this technique to the fabrication of graded index fibers with losses below 2 dB/km is also reported."
 "The constitutive relations for small-signal electromagnetic fields propagated in a cylindrical electron plasma rotating around its axis are derived with the use of the electron-theoretical approach. A rotating electron plasma is found to be equivalent to a moving dispersive dielectric with an appropriate dielectric constant, as far as small-signal electromagnetic fields are concerned."
"A soliton of TM type is shown to exist in nonlinear self-focusing media and its propagation characteristics such as field distributions and propagation constant, are clarified and are compared with a soliton of TE type."
"Diffused planar structure of analog transistor is developed using high-resistivity n-type silicon. Experimental characteristic of the device is compared with a conventional theory, and certain apparent discrepancy is qualitatively explained. The obtained unilateral power gain is 8.2 dB at 1 GHz."
"It is calculated that the barrier height of the Schottky diode has an optimum value of ∼0.3 V for the detector, the harmonic generator, and the frequency converter at high frequency. The low barrier height can be realized by the mixed crystal (n-type) composed of InAs (i.e., InxGa1-xAs,InAsyP1-y, and InxGa1-xAsyP1-y)."
"Integral sampling is a technique where the sample is taken over a whole sampling period. This then permits an increased sampling rate. Two integnd samplen am described where RC networks are used as the integrating blocks."
"Error entropy estimation principles are used to analyze the smoothing problem for linear discrete time systems. Using information-theoretic concepts, a smoothing rate upper bound formula is developed which is considerably simpler to use than determining smoothing effectiveness by the optimal mean-square-error smoothing algorithm."
"The conventional transistor multivibrator is improved. Supply voltage, transistor \"cut-in\" voltage, base-emitter breakdown voltage and transistor gain influences are considerably reduced by using diodes."
"An effort is made to give a solution of the general non-unifomly spaced antenna array by the orthogonal method when the array factor f(ϕ, ϑ) is given."
"A computationally simple method of generating a discrete state transition matrix Φ(k) is developed. This method eliminates the need to invert (zI-A) and thereby greatly simplifies the calculation Φ(k) = Σ residues of (zI - A)-1zk."
"Complementary silicon single-drift-region IMPATT diodes designed to operate above 100 GHz have been fabricated with ion-implanted dopant profiles. Continuous-wave output powers of 140 mW with 2.8-percent conversion efficiencies were obtained at 142 GHz."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The principles of communication theory were applied in the 1950's to optical imaging systems and to the analysis of images. Optical systems were analyzed in much the same way as linear systems (modulation transfer functions and channel capacities) and images were characterized in ways analogous to time signals (space-bandwidth products, spatial frequency content, etc.). Both coherently and incoherently illuminated optical systems can be treated using these concepts. Coherently illuminated systems are most useful for performing operation such as convolution, cross correlation, and spectral analysis because the Fourier transform of an optical signal physically exists and can, therefore, be measured or modified. The basic Fourier transform relationship for coherently illuminated systems is developed in this paper. It can be detected directly and used to estimate the distribution of spatial frequencies contained in the signal. Methods for constructing complex-valued spatial filters are described; these filters can be used to realize such operations as convolution or cross correlation, addition or subtraction, and differentiation or integration. Experimental results are given to illustrate the concepts and to susgest potential applications. To extend the range of applications, interface devices are needed to allow optical processing of two-dimensional raster-scanned time signals, wide bandwidth electrical signals, and incoherent optical signals. Interface devices are often needed to convert the output optical signal to an electrical signal for post-processing by a digital computer. For some applications, interface devices are needed to construct spatial filters in real time, so different operations can be performed on a given signal. The desired characteristics of these three interface devices and the current state of their development are briefly reviewed."
"In a wide variety of applications it is necessary to infer the structure of a multidimensional object from a set of its projections. There has been a long-standing interest in this problem and a number of different techniques have been proposed. In this paper, we present a tutorial review of the reconstruction problem and some of the algorithms which have been proposed for its solution. In addition, we present a number of new algorithms that appear to have some advantages over previous algorithms. Some comparisons of these algorithms applied to reconstructions of two-dimensional pictures are given. Furthermore, a number of new theoretical results are presented relating to the minimum number of projections necessary for exact reconstruction."
"Semiconductors with negative electron affinity (NEA) surfaces are used as photoemitters, secondary emitters, and cold-cathode emitters. A comprehensive review of the characteristics and applications of these materials is presented, the concept of NEA is described, and a comparison is made between NEA and conventional emitters. Electron generation, transport, and emission processes of NEA emitters are discussed. NEA III-V compound photocathodes, especially GaAs, are described with respect to their fabrication, performance, and applications to photomultipliers and image intensifier tubes. The structure and performance of NEA secondary emitters are presented. NEA GaP secondary-emission dynodes represent the most important device application. NEA cold cathodes, using GaAs, Ga(As, P), or Si, have been investigated, and their performance characteristics are summarized. NEA Si cold cathodes have been incorporated in developmental TV camera tubes. The characteristics of these tubes are reviewed."
"The techniques of photolithography, electron lithography, X-ray lithography, ion bombardment etching, and liftoff are reviewed, and their advantages and disadvantages assessed from the point of view of fabricating surface-acoustic-wave and thin-film optical devices."
"Lyapunov's stability and asymptotic stability theorems as given by Brauer and Nohel are used to show that the sufficiency conditions derived by Sinha give mere stability as opposed to global asymptotic stability."
"There is a close parallel between the bases for the classic Darlington (passive) network synthesis procedure and the recent Szentirmai active-network synthesis procedure. The two essentially differ only in exchanging oddness for evenness in network parameters and terminations, and reactive power for real power in the basic equation. The somewhat more general basis thus offered for the Szentirmai procedure should stimulate research in active-network synthesis."
"Radiometer measurements show that the human body emits thermal signals at millimeter wavelengths which can produce a thermographic image potentially useful for detection of \"hot spots.\" The spatial resolution which can be obtained at a frequency of 45 GHz is in the order of 1.3 cm, and the temperature resolution is 0.1 K."
"A simplified equivalent circuit, which has been used for a resonator with low electromechanical coupling is still a good approximation for a high coupling resonator, provided that the parallel capacitance is so chosen that the circuit yields the exact antiresonance frequency. All the circuit constants can be experimentally determined."
"The switching characteristics of polysilicon n-π-n devices present an extended negative-resistance region and allow large current densities. A breakover threshold field of 104V/cm has been deduced. It is suggested that polysilicon devices should be explored for switching applications."
"A previous technique for deriving Chebyshev shading coefficients using a cosine series is rewritten in the form of an inverse discrete Fourier transform (DFT) thus allowing one to take advantage of standard DFT algorithms. The reduced accuracy required for intermediate calculations is retained. Additionally, the fast Fourier transform can be used giving computational savings."
"Dolph-Chebyshev weights, which realize a minimum side-lobe level for a specified main-lobe width, can be generated by a single fast Fourier transform (FFT). For an even number of elements 2H, the size of the FFT is H. This result has utility for spectral analysis as well as for array processing."
"If packets of data carry D message bits and H header bits and reliable estimates of message length are not available, then D should be chosen to be about eight times greater than H in order to obtain maximum throughput for a given transmission rate."
"Description of a closed-loop control system for an ordinary wound rotor induction motor, which makes use of thyristors in the secondary side as pulsewidth modulated dc switch operating at a suitable preset pulse repetition rate, is presented. The slip frequency rotor voltage is rectified and fed to a thyristor chopper, a variable ON time of which results in a variable speed. The ON time is controlled by a strong feedback loop from speed signals, so that the set speed remains nearly constant irrespective of load variations. It is observed that torque of the machine varies widely with ON time depending on the two possible extreme conditions: 1) when the thyristor switch is in parallel with the source (rectified rotor voltage) and external resistance; and 2) when the switch is in series with the source and external resistance. The scheme may be adopted as a brushless drive system."
"An analogy is drawn between the Lorentz transformation and the equations of a transmission line or of a symmetrical two-port network. Some of the relationships associated with the transformation may thereby be explained."
"A previous method published on error correction in multi-level word transmission could only recover single symbol errors. We show how single symbol errors and a restricted class of multiple symbol errors can be corrected without reducing information rate."
"The effect of the strength of turbulence on the intensity distribution in the focal plane of a focused laser beam is studied. The intensity in the focal region is found to be unaffected by the turbulence provided Cn2< 0.45 k0-2S-5/6F-1, where Cnis the index of the refraction structure constant, k0is the signal wavenumber, S is the initial cross section of the beam, and F is the focal length."
"A new method of apodizing single metallization interdigital transducers is presented. For each new apodizing function, only a new simple apodizing mask is required. The method involves no critical alignment. Dummy electrodes are inherently provided."
 "Power system load flow solutions, with particular reference to removal of branches for security evaluation, are discussed. The equivalence between two proposed techniques (\"compensation method\" and \"inversion of a modified matrix method\") which allow simple modification of the load flow problem in order to evaluate single and double line outages is demonstrated."
"The SNR of a frequency-compensated optical receiver is derived, and the validity of the assumptions used in the derivation is analyzed. A compensating circuit having a wide range of application in video receivers is suggested."
"Thin-film transistors were fabricated using CdSxSe1-xsemiconducting alloys prepared by flash evaporation of the mixture of CdS and CdSe compounds."
"A new type of quadrature FM oscillator, which provides wide-band low distortion FM signals, is described. The quadrature oscillator is used as a basis for a three-phase FM oscillator which has application in power system modeling and instrumentation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The paper is a review of asymptotic methods in the theory of diffraction and emphasizes Soviet contributions. Without going into mathematical details it presents a survey of a number of applications of ray techniques and their generalizations to problems of diffraction."
"In this paper the geometrical theory of diffraction is extended to treat the radiation from apertures or slots in convex perfectly conducting surfaces. It is assumed that the tangential electric field in the aperture is known so that an equivalent infinitesimal source can be defined at each point in the aperture. Surface rays emanate from this source which is a caustic of the ray system. A launching coefficient is introduced to describe the excitation of the surface ray modes. If the field radiated from the surface is desired, the ordinary diffraction coefficients are used to determine the field of the rays shed tangentially from the surface rays. The field of the surface ray modes is not the field on the surface; hence if the mutual coupling between slots is of interest, a second coefficient related to the launching coefficient must be employed. In the region adjacent to the shadow boundary, the component of the field directly radiated from the source is represented by Fock-type functions. In the illuminated region the incident radiation from the source (this does not include the diffracted field components) is treated by geometrical optics. This extension of the geometrical theory of diffraction is applied to calculate the radiation from slots on elliptic cylinders, spheres, and spheroids."
"A compact dyadic diffraction coefficient for electromagnetic waves obliquely incident on a curved edse formed by perfectly conducting curved ot plane surfaces is obtained. This diffraction coefficient remains valid in the transition regions adjacent to shadow and reflection boundaries, where the diffraction coefficients of Keller's original theory fail. Our method is based on Keller's method of the canonical problem, which in this case is the perfectly conducting wedge illuminated by plane, cylindrical, conical, and spherical waves. When the proper ray-fixed coordinate system is introduced, the dyadic diffraction coefficient for the wedge is found to be the sum of only two dyads, and it is shown that this is also true for the dyadic diffraction coefficients of higher order edges. One dyad contains the acoustic soft diffraction coefficient; the other dyad contains the acoustic hard diffraction coefficient. The expressions for the acoustic wedge diffraction coefficients contain Fresenel integrals, which ensure that the total field is continuous at shadow and reflection boundaries. The diffraction coefficients have the same form for the different types of edge illumination; only the arguments of the Fresnel integrals are different. Since diffraction is a local phenomenon, and locally the curved edge structure is wedge shaped, this result is readily extended to the curved wedge. It is interesting that even though the polarizations and the wavefront curvatures of the incident, reflected, and diffracted waves are markedly different, the total field calculated from this high-frequency solution for the curved wedge is continuous at shadow and reflection boundaries."
"An analysis of the diffraction processes at a wedge in the geometrical theory of diffraction is presented. In the case where one wave mode can propagate outside a nonideally conducting wedge we show that the diffracted field can be viewed as consisting of a \"nonreflected contribution\" and a \"reflected contribution.\" A generalization method from the one-mode case to the case where two modes of propagation exist outside the wedge is proposed. By means of this procedure we may construct the diffraction coefficients obtained by Labianca and Felsen for a conducting half-plane in a compressible plasma. The application of two-dimensional results to three-dimensional problems is summarized."
"Three high-frequency methods of calculating the scattering from metallic edged bodies are compared. The first two are the physical and geometrical theories of diffraction, which have been well established since the late 1950's, and the third is the method of equivalent currents. It is shown that the three share remarkably similar features, although each has its particular virtues and limitations in practical applications."
"The reflection problem for a TE mode traveling toward the end of a semi-infinite parellel-plane waveguide is solved by ray methods. Unlike a previous solution due to Yee et al., the present ray-optical solution is a rigorous asymptotic result, i.e., it is identical with the asymptotic expansion (width of waveguide large compared to wavelength) of the exact solution. Numerical results for the modal reflection coefficients are presented and are compared with calculations based on the exact solution. It is found that the agreement between ray-optical and exact values is excellent and even better than in the approach of Yee et al., especially in the vicinity of cutoff frequencies of higher order modes."
"Two previously developed ray methods for conformal arrays on surfaces with variable curvature are further systematized and applied to arrays of equispaced identical slits on perfectly conducting parabolic cylindrical surfaces. The two methods differ in their definition of the canonical problems that are fundamental to the scattering process. In the first method, multiple scattering on the smooth cylinder surface accounts for interaction between isolated elements, while in the second, surface rays are defined on a local periodically loaded surface. The first method is valid under quite general conditions and yields reliable numerical results for mutual-coupling coefficients and radiation patterns. The second provides a simple explanation of a variety of coupling and radiation phenomena when the array possesses aspects of periodicity, and it is preferable for numerical calculation of mutual coupling in large arrays. These features are illustrated in detail on a particular example. The results obtained confirm the utility of the ray analysis in furnishing solutions for coupling coefficients and element patterns in conformal arrays, and they also demonstrate the fundamental insight gained by the local periodic-structure approach."
"The survey is devoted to the asymptotic theory of electro-magnetic waves in dispersive media with variable parameters. General questions of the space-time geometric-optics method are considered in Section I. The peculiarities of the material equations for weakly nonstationary dispersive media are discussed in Section II. Numerous physical problems which admit analytical solutions by the geometrical-optics method are considered in Section III (modulated-wave propagation in nondispersive media) and in Section IV (modulated-wave propagation in dispersive media); here, we describe short wavetrain propagation, wave phenomena in media with traveling parameters, compression of frequency-modulated pulses, and other problems. In Section V, the refraction and polarization phenomena arising in nonuniformly moving media are studied. Section VI deals with some problems lying beyond the frames of the geometrical optics (the behavior of the electromagnetic field in the vicinity of space-time caustics, quasi-optical description of wave packet propagation). Finally, in Section VII, some new statistical phenomena are investigated for waves propagating in nonstationary random media."
"Asymptotic methods developed recently in the nonlinear wave theory and applicable to the analysis of nonsinusoidal processes are discussed. These methods are based on the assumption of sufficiently slow space-time modulation of wave parameters (shortwave approximation). The intention of this paper is neither to review all problems of asymptotic wave theory nor to give a complete bibliography. Its purpose is to show the main ideas of the methods and to present concrete procedures for the construction of the approximate solutions that correspond to the \"nonlinear geometrical optics\" for various types of waves. A brief classification of these processes is also given in this paper. The following questions are considered: a) the asymptotic method for quasi-stationary waves; b) a modification of this method describing slowly varying aperiodic waves (shocks and solitary waves); c) the derivation of \"averaged variational principle\" and its generalization for dissipative systems; d) the method of reduction of a system of equations close to the linear hyperbolic ones which is valid for nonstationary waves propagating along the characteristics; and e) the concrete problem of cylindrical finite-amplitude electromagnetic wave propagation in isotropic dielectrics."
"An analytical study of the evolution of slowly varying wave pulses in strongly dispersive media which takes into account dispersive correction terms involving higher derivatives of the group velocity is given. A higher order differential equation for the envelope function is derived and solved recursively and by means of a procedure based on an analogy with the Schrödinger equation. The equation for the envelope function is used to obtain generalizations of the velocity of the pulse defined as the velocity of the center of inertia, and expressions are derived which determine the spreading of the pulse. Finally, we discuss how the presence of other wave modes affects the primary mode in the multimode case."
"Waves propagating through random media undergo large phase and amplitude scintillations even when the scattering at other than very small angles is insignificant. A large number of literature on the subject has been written in recent years. Nevertheless many of the more interesting effects (amplitude scintillation) are not well understood because the theory of the interaction is formulated too abstractly to give insight. The purpose of this work is to provide a phenomenological model with which we derive most of the known expressions-and some new ones-by means of back-of-the-envelope calculations. The model appears to give the needed insights."
"Inhomogeneous waves behave locally like A(r) exp[ikS(r)], where A and S are spatially dependent complex amplitude and phase functions, and k is the (large) free-space wavenumber. A previously developed asymptotic theory for high-frequency propagation and scattering of such waves is here applied to the propagation and scattering of paraxial Gaussian beams. Attention is given to Gaussian beams in free space, to beams in a lens-like medium with parabolic variation of the refractive index, and to beam reflection by a cylindrical obstacle. In the latter instance, the obstacle size may be comparable to the incident beamwidth, thereby introducing substantial distortion into the reflected beam. The results obtained from the asymptotic theory are verified by comparison with rigorously derived solutions, thereby confirming the validity of the theory, which can also be applied to more general medium and obstacle configurations."
"Representations and geometric constructions associated with complex points, complex lines, and complex rays are introduced. They are applied to the problem of scattering of an evanescent plane wave by a conducting circular cylinder. This problem has an exact solution, which provides a check of the validity of complex ray tracing and suggests more general applications. An important role is played by the transformation that maps the point of reflection, on the complex extension of the scattering surface, onto the trace in real space of the complex reflected ray. For the particular problem considered, the phase and amplitude of the reflected field are computed and the \"phase paths\" and \"phase fronts\" are constructed. The reflected field and phase paths obtained in this manner are not to be taken in their entirety because some reflection points are not \"illuminated\" by the incident wave, and because the reflector may be only part of the cylinder. Tentative selection and truncation rules are used which yield good agreement with the exact solution over some regions. The disagreement, where it occurs, comes-as it does for real rays-from neglecting the diffracted field such as the creeping waves around smooth surfaces and, in the case of truncation, the edge waves from the discontinuity. Some consideration is given to scattering by an arbitrary smooth conductor. Some problems peculiar to the use of complex rays are stated."
"A method is presented for obtaining the scattered field due to a beam incident on a layered structure or on a dielectric grating whose properties vary slowly along a longitudinal direction. The scattered field is expressed in terms of a Green's function whose form is particularly simple for a large class of practical problems involving laser beams incident on structures capable of guiding leaky waves. The incident beam may then strongly couple to the leaky wave, thus producing a scattered field that contains a specularly reflected component and a diffracted component of the leaky-wave type. The presence of the latter component may cause the resulting scattered field to be considerably different from the field of the incident beam. A judicious choice of the leaky-wave structure can be used to produce a scattered field that exhibits any of a wide range of distributions. The method developed herein is illustrated by means of structures whose leakage-properties vary linearly. The results can be utilized either for efficiently coupling a beam into a surface wave, or for splitting the incident beam into two separate but closely similar outgoing beams, both applications being discussed in detail."
"A general theory of optical resonators based on the concept of complex point-eikonal is presented. The analysis is limited to the approximation of Gauss. The modes of resonance of open resonators formed by two spherical mirrors facing each other have been obtained in previous works by fitting the wavefronts of Gaussian beams to the mirror surfaces. This method becomes complicated when the resonator contains focusing elements or dielectric slabs. The approach proposed in this paper is more straightforward than previous approaches dealing with this problem and is applicable to resonators containing anisotropic media. The round-trip point-eikonal is first evaluated on the basis of the conventional laws of Gaussian optics. The presence of apertures with Gaussian transmissivity, and of lasers with quadratic transverse variation of the gain, are accounted for by introducing complex round-trip point-eikonals. The modes ψm(x) of the resonator are obtained from a power series expansion of the Green function of a mode-generating system related to the round-trip point-eikonal S of the resonator. The resonance frequencies and the round-trip losses are given by simple and general formulas. The mode fields are described by Hermite-Gauss functions with complex arguments, explicitly in terms of S. For resonators that do not contain apertures, the wavefronts are the same for all the modes and they are plane at planes of symmetry. In reciprocal resonators, clockwise and counter-clockwise modes have the same losses and resonant frequencies, but different mode pattents. These modes are shown to be mutually adjoint. Adjoint modes, with < ψ†m, ψn> = 0 if m ≠ n, are useful to evaluate the response of optical resonators to incident fields. Results applicable to resonators containing nonorthogonal astigmatic elements are also discussed."
"Hamilton's equations for geometric optics contain the quantity ∂ω/∂k which is complex in absorbing media. To investigate its physical meaning, the field of a wave packet (a pulsed beam) in a homogeneous medium with moderate absorption is calculated using the saddle-point method. The packet velocity v is approximately equal to the real part of ∂ωS/∂kSwhere kS, ωSare the saddle-point values of the propagation vector and the angular frequency. The imaginary part of ∂ωS/∂kScan physically be interpreted in terms of v and derivatives of Re kSċ σ, Re ωSτ in the direction of v, where σ1/2and τ1/2are beam-width and pulse duration, respectively."
"Ray techniques are used to construct an approximate solution for radio waves propagating in the ionosphere when the loss of energy due to collisions is not negligible. For the time-harmonic problem, the solution is in the form of an asymptotic expansion in a large parameter scaling the operating frequency and the natural frequencies characterizing the ionospheric properties. Complex rays are introduced as the characteristics of the resulting eikonal equation, analytically extended to complex space points. The rapidly varying exponential factor and a series for the wave amplitude are both determined by integrating along the rays. The propagation of narrow-band modulation is also determined by integrating along the same complex rays. It is shown that the nature of the initial disturbance plays a vital role in determining the character of the rays required for the solution of a particular problem."
"Asymptotic transient field solutions of the form A(r,t) exp [iS (r, t)], where S is a rapidly and A a slowly varying function of space and time, may be analyzed in terms of wave packets with central frequency ω =-∂S/∂t and central wavenumber k = ∇S. When the (dispersive) medium is lossless, stationary, and homogeneous, wave packets with constant real ω and k move along straightline trajectories called space-time rays. In the presence of dissipation and (or) when the input signal has an exponential amplitude dependence, S is complex. The corresponding wave packets with constant complex ω and k move along complex space-time rays, i.e., along trajectories defined in a complex (r, t) coordinate space. The properties of complex space-time rays and of the fields propagating along them, and their relation to physical fields observed on real (r, t) coordinates, are illustrated for a plane pulse with Gaussian envelope and frequency swept carrier, launched into a lossy environment. Tracking of spatial and temporal maxima is performed by ray techniques, and a paraxial ray regime is defined that permits discussion of a signal velocity. Special attention is given to ray focusing and the associated phenomena of pulse compression. It is shown how a complex input frequency profile can be synthesized so as to achieve optimum compression at a real space-time observation point in a lossy medium. The general results are applied in detail to a cold dissipative plasma, and a representative set of numerical calculations is included."
"Various comparisons are made between geometrical optics, integrated physical optics, asymptotic physical optic, the geometrical theory of diffraction, and experimental data for fields from high-frequency paraboloidal and hyperboloidal reflectors."
"Using transport methods we have computed the mutual coherence function of a laser beam propagating in turbulence with a modified von Karman spectrum for the index of refraction fluctuations, including a parametric study of the effect of varying beam size, focal length, and the properties of the turbulence."
"Many communication channels involving distortion due to random time-varible surface scattering suffer from extremely acute time and frequency smear. This is particularly true for sonar and low or medium frequeacy electromagnetic propaption where Fresnel zones can be large and yet where Rayleigh parameters can also be quite high. Using a simple Fresnel corrected geometric optics model for the surface-scatter channel, it is possible to explain the unusually high deggee of dispersive scattering observed. The Scattering function for the channel is derived and its shape shown to be range dependent for wide beam excitation. Under certain not unreasonable assumptions about the surface statistics this function is, in fact, shown to exhibit a narrow parabolic ridge with a \"hollow\" interior."
"The concept of radiation from a distribution of oscillating current at a complex location can be used to describe the aberrations of a Gaussian beam. First-order theory requires an electric dipole for representing a beam. Third-order theory calls for a pair of electric dipoles, magnetic dipoles, and electric quadrupoles."
"A previously developed procedure for tracking inhomogeneous local plane wave fields with complex phase and amplitude in isotropic media is extended to uniaxially anisotropic media. A Gaussian beam in the anisotropic medium is considered as an example."
"A method for constructing the complex eikonal of an evanescent optical field, given its values on some surface, is described. It proceeds by successive approximations whose steps consist of tracing real rays in appropriate fictitious media. The first step, valid for weakly evanescent fields, is essentially a method previously described by Choudhary and Felsen."
"An investisation is described on modes and losses of a rectangular four-mirror ring resonator and on the behavior of such modes in the transition region between the ring and the 90° roof mirror resonators. The modes of either the rectangalar ring of the 90° roof resonators are of the Fabry-Perot type. When passing from roof to rectangular ring, the zeroth mode of the roof degenerates into the first odd mode, which represents the lowest order mode of the ring. Experimental checks confirm the theoretical results."
"The theory of the barrel resonator with a central rod of dielectric material is developed. The equations for resonance are derived and it is shown how this configuration can be used for the measurement of permittivity."
"It is shown that when the source coordinates (z', t') in a plane pulse field u-(z, t; z', t') propagating in a lossless plasma medium are assigned complex values, the resulting solution describes propagation of a Gaussian pulse. This observation provides a simple mechanism for generating Gaussian pulse fields from impulse-excited fields."
"Given is a simple theorem, that can be routinely applied to synthesize any member of a class of multivariable positive real functions, after realizing several single variable minimum positive real functions. A nontrivial example is used to illustrate the algorithm."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The similarities and differences between acoustic and magnetic surface waves as compared with light waves are discussed. This comparison suggests several possible advantages of surface wave ring interferometers over optical ring interferometers for rotation sensing. The primary advantags are increased sensitivity, ease of construction, and size reduction. Proposed designs for such sensors are given. In the Appendixes the optical ring interferometer and ring laser are reviewed."
"This paper begins with a description of some of the important procedures of the Fourier analysis of real-valued stationary discrete time series. These procedures include the estimation of the power spectrum, the fitting of finite parameter models, and the identification of linear time invariant systems. Among the results emphasized is the one that the large sample statistical properties of the Fourier transform are simpler than those of the series itself. The procedures are next generalized to apply to the cases of vector-valued series, multidimensional time series or spatial series, point processes, random measures, and finally to stationary random Schwartz distributions. It is seen that the relevant Fourier transforms are evaluated by different formulas in these further cases, but that the same constructions are carried out after their evaluation and the same statistical results hold. Such generalizations are of interest because of current work in the fields of picture processing and pulse-code modulation."
"A tutorial review of the dc and ac electric-drive field is presented. The goal is to present fundamental concepts, principle concerns, and key developments in electric-drive technology. Principles of ac and dc power converters and ac and dc motors are presented. Then the combination of the converter and motor to provide a complete drive system is discussed along with drive-system characteristics and methods for analyzing performance. Finally, some application guidelines for both ac and dc systems are given."
"The microwave theory of phased-array antennas is reviewed, emphasizing large planar arrays suitable for phased-array radar. The review looks in detail at the three major parts of the antenna, namely, the element array, the phase shifters, and the feed system. The element array is studied by first modeling it as being infinite in extent and the concept of the per element absorption cross section and gain versus angle is developed. The technique of modal analysis using plane waves is explained and used to calculate the aforementioned quantities for waveguide and dipole elements. The review proceeds first through an analysis which applies to small elements, using a single element mode, and then to a more accurate solution containing the first higher mode in addition. The author has added new research to the review which explains the blindness effect for waveguide arrays. A necessary and sufficient condition for array blindness has been derived which removes a major uncertainty about the blindness effect. A result is that a blindness angle will always occur in E and H plane scanning of rectangular waveguide elements for any waveguide size, provided the array lattice is such as to permit a grating-lobe singularity by the simple one-element-mode theory. Elements large than some critical size are not required to produce blindness but the large size has the effect of producing greater shift of the blindness angle towards broadside from the grating lobe angle. The singularity in element admittance right at the grating lobe angle, which is a well-known milestone in the analysis of elements which have been modeled to support only one mode, is in reality a fiction. When higher modes are added to the solution, as is necessary for any physical element, the grating-lobe singularity is found to disappear. Thus for any real physical element, there is no grating lobe blindness, but the blindness angle is shifted inside of this angle by an amount which depends upon the element size. A review of element design calculations using many higher element modes is presented, and element configurations are shown which produce a good impedance match over a wide scan angle as well as a wide-frequency band. The application of the aforementioned results obtained from the infinite-array model to a practical, finite array are discussed. The theory of the most useful phase-shifter types for phased arrays is discussed, including those using both ferrite and semiconductor diodes. The ferrite toroid in a waveguide is a very effective design and the results of an optimization analysis for this configuration are presented. Choices of ferrite material parameters for low loss at both small and large signal levels are discussed. A method of reducing the temperature sensitivity of phase shift by means of the driver circuit is also reviewed. Semiconductor diode phase shifters have a greatly increased potential due to an improvement in diode reliability that has produced an expected mean life of 109h. The theory of phase-shifter operation using diodes in a balanced hybrid circuit is discussed and relations are given for bandwidth, loss, and power capability. The high-power limitation of the phase shifters is due to a nonlinear loss effect in the reverse biased state and is caused by the large RF voltages. The loss can be reduced by circuit techniques and by employing the new diodes of improved design, which are discussed. Feed systems for phased arrays are synthesized from a number of basic techniques according to the antenna applications. A few of the important techniques are reviewed here. Feed systems are required to produce an optimum aperture distribution for two types of patterns simultaneously, the sum pattern (Taylor distribution) and the difference pattern (Bayliss distribution). For the constrained feed, which uses transmission line throughout, two alternatives are presented for accomplishing the aforesaid. It is shown that the feed network can prevent reflections from the element array, which are always present to some degree, from adding an error component to the desired aperture distribution by employing 4-port power dividers which are provided with a reflection absorbing termination. An approximate method of wide-band beam steering is discussed in which a small number of time delay devices are used to feed subarrays of elements steered by conventional phase shifters. The subarray feeding technique is also employed in another application with the Butler beam forming matrix to form simultaneous multiple beams in an approximate manner that reduces the size of the beam forming matrix required. The space feed is an alternative to the constrained feed and distributes energy to the elements by free-space propagation. This method possesses great flexibility and may approach the capability of the constrained feed in secondary aperture performance by using a large number of feed elements. A design method of accounting for the near-field diffraction produced by the large feed is given."
"Discussion of the divergenceless property of the right-hand side of the dyadic-wave equation for the Green's dyad has centered on the inconsistency of expanding the Green's dyad only in terms of transverse-wave functions. By including the longitudinal functions in the Ohm-Rayleigh expansion of the dyad, a simple closed form expression for the longitudinal component is derived which yields the expected singular quasi-static field. The result is verified in a coordinate independent manner with the aid of the Helmholtz theorem."
"In this letter the maximum directivity of general nonuniformly spaced broadside arrays of dipoles is examined. This is done with the help of formulas found by the method of orthonormalization of the base, which includes the array factor."
"An extremely simple difference equation for the solution of transient signal propagation in a cold homogeneous lossy isotropic plasma has been found. This difference equation is derived from an integro-differential equation for the electric field by a finite difference method. The solution is generated in a recursive manner in time."
"This letter describes an active RC network which realizes a fourth-order low-pass Butterworth characteristic. It requires one active element and has the practical advantage that all capacitors have the same value. A design chart is included."
"A new field-effect liquid crystal display is reported. Display patterns are derived from arrays of grating-like electrodes on one plate of the display package. Since the opposed plate is not electroded, construction of the display is somewhat simplified compared to conventional twisted-nematic displays."
"A measurement method is described which enables the separate measurement of the power spectra of the normal noise (white and l/f) superimposed on burst noise. With this method the power spectra of normal noise can be determined for each burst noise level. It is found that the clean burst noise and the superimposed normal noise are generated by statistically independent processes. The fact that burst noise devices have a higher 1/f noise power content than devices without burst noise indicates that there exists a common condition for the generation of burst noise and 1/f noise."
"A bandpass filter using only two resistors and two operational amplifiers is suggested. The circuit has a Q equal to the ratio of the ressistors. While Q and gain are insensitive to temperature variations, the variations in center frequency is minimized uing a compensation scheme."
"It is shown that ambisuity function of a time-limited signal can be obtained using ultrasonic convolvers. Experimental results are presented using a separate media space charge coupled acoustic surface-wave convolver."
"A method of amplifying wide-band sisnals using narrow-band amplifiers is proposed. It uses the principle of undersampling a signal and amplifying the narrow-band signals generated by several sets of undersamples of the signal."
"The IMP-6 spacecraft was detected at 140 000 km using a 430-MHz radar. Several radar observables were measured."
"The concept of \"hologram matrix\" was introduced earlier [1], [2]. A novel radar based upon this new principle of operation has been developed and successfully tested. A brief description of the radar system and the results obtained from the field operation are reported."
"The pulse saturation on a nondispersive traveling wave parametric amplifier is solved in the slowly varying approximation with space and time by reducing the dynamic equations to a degenerate form-of the sine-Gordon equation. If the group velocity of the signal wave differs from that of the pump and idler waves, the signal wave obeys the sine-Gordon equation."
"A novel and economical computer iterative method for cavity mode calculations is developed. The method involves the formulation of the cavity field in the form of Fourier integrals and involves the use of the fast Fourier transform as a computation tool for obtaining numerical results."
"The H0nmodes for helical waveguide are obtained rigorously from a newly introduced system of coordinates. It is also found that a coaxial line can support slow waves of magnetic type."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "Many studies have been made concerning the theoretical features of focusing electron beams by means of permanent magnets producing periodic magnetic fields, and methods for practical design in traveling-wave tubes have been given. A new attempt to solve this problem by means of a graphical method by which the dimensions of the device can be optimized in every practical case is proposed."
"Direct measurements of the arrival position distributions of electrons on multiplication steps in the dynamic crossed-field photomultiplier (DCFP) are reported. These measurements were performed using special devices with slotted dynodes behind which a fluorescent screen was placed. The electron position distribution could then be observed on the fluorescent screen and photographed. These experiments have shown that under all normal operating conditions of the DCFP good spatial resolution (no overlap) of electrons on all multiplication steps can be achieved."
"Computer simulations of GaAs transferred electron devices have been performed by solving the time- and space-dependent Boltzmann equation and assuming displaced Maxwellian distributions for the two conduction band valleys. Since this model includes particle, momentum, and energy relaxation (as distinct from models using instantaneous velocity field dependence) and retains the spatial dependence (as distinct from uniform field models) it is particularly well suited for studying cases that are characterized by a strong x-dependence of electron temperature. Short devices as well as long ones operating at very high frequencies have been studied extensively, since these devices were thought and, in fact, have been found to be strongly affected by nonuniform energy relaxation due to contacts, domains, and other types of space charge. The results have been compared with experimental findings and with theoretical results computed by others."
"A recently developed procedure, incorporating both preferential electrochemical etching for wafer thinning and electroplating for heat sink formation has been applied to the fabrication of Kaband (26.5-40 GHz) GaAs IMPATT's. Both epitaxially grown GaAs p+n junction and Cr Schottky barrier diodes have been fabricated. This procedure makes possible the batch fabrication of small area diodes (<2 \\times 10^{-5}cm2) over a large wafer area. The diodes have been operated both in the oscillator and stable-amplifier mode. Power, efficiency, and noise performance of the devices is reported. The p+n diodes, which could withstand junction temperature of over 300°C, gave the best power and efficiency. Powers as high as 680 mW with 12.4 percent efficiency at 34.8 GHz and an efficiency as high as 16 percent with 390 mW at 29.5 GHz have been achieved. The Cr Schottky diodes were unable to withstand junction temperatures in excess of 200°C and therefore produced less power despite the potentially better power handling capability. The highest power obtained from a Cr Schottky is 470 mW with 12.5 percent efficiency at 34 GHz. Comparable oscillator noise performance has been obtained with both types of diode. The best AM (DSB) double sideband NSR obtained is -135 dB in a 100 Hz window at 1.5 MHz from the carrier. An rms frequency deviation as low as 13 Hz in a 100 Hz window has been observed with a power output of 164 mW at 35.4 GHz by raising the external Q to 138. A lowest FM noise measure of 23 dB was achieved by reducing output power to 16 mW. The amplifier noise figure measured for both p+n and Cr Schottky diodes is 26 dB."
"Conventional microwave transistors are normally considered to operate as a single lumped circuit element. That this is only an approximation has been accommodated in the past by the use of an equivalent circuit including some inductance to correct for the finite size of the contact metallization. The effect of this inductance can drastically change the properties of the transistor when the size of the device becomes a significant part of an electrical wavelength. To study this form of behavior, a transistor with an electrical length on the order of one eighth of a wavelength was constructed. When tested in a suitable circuit, feedback effects involving the metallization inductance caused the transistor to produce four times more stable power gain than would be expected from a conventional transistor having the same area. Amplifiers designed using the new transistor and an equivalent conventional transistor had equal gain-bandwidth products. Other circuit properties of the transistor were observed to be significantly modified, the emitter lead inductance becoming an insensitive parameter while the base lead inductance became very critical. The measured properties of the transistor were found to be in good agreement with theoretical predictions."
"A transistor large enough in one dimension to span a length significant compared to a quarter wavelength within the device can be treated as two-coupled transmission lines. The general solution of such lines is applied here for the small-signal linear case treated as a classical boundary value problem of TEM waves on coupled lines, which are uniform but have no other restrictions regarding transmission line parameters, coupling, symmetry, similarity, or terminations. This solution is extended to include the parasitic inductance and capacitance usually present in connecting the device into a circuit. Electrical characteristics of a distributed device begin to deviate noticeably from those of the equivalent lumped device even at a relatively short electrical length. Computer simulation of a large distributed transistor indicates that, if properly employed, distributed effects in small-signal operation may lead to advantageous characteristics such as in device impedance levels, stability, and gain-band product. Other characteristics may prove to be disadvantageous or troublesome in large signal or class C operation. If unrecognized or ignored, distributed effects can result in highly unsatisfactory transistor operation. As microwave transistors increase in size and frequency capability, distributed effects will undoubtedly need to be taken increasingly into account."
"Under electrical load the crystal temperature inside a semiconductor power device changes substantially both in space and in time. Its measurement with good resolution in temperature, in time as well as in space, was attempted by detecting the thermal radiation emitted from an operational semiconductor device that was thick enough to be opaque to thermal infrared. A cooled InSb detector is followed by an amplifier allowing for a tradeoff between time resolution (the overall time constant varied from 0.5 to 86 µs) and temperature resolution, such that their product remained constant. For temperature fields periodic in time, sampling methods and signal averaging are applied which further improve temperature resolution with time and space resolution remaining unchanged. A large improvement in speed of response with respect to conventional methods results. For a fixed surface point the time dependence of temperature is obtained. Fixing the observation window in time leads to profiles of instantaneous temperature across a selected line of the exposed semiconductor which are in good agreement with those predicted by a recent theoretical model. In Part I the case of thick slices is treated. The extension to thin slices which are transparent to thermal infrared are treated in Part II."
"In Part I, handling and interpretation of infrared thermal radiation signals have been treated for optically thick devices. If thin slices are to be analyzed, as is the case if high spatial resolution is required, interpretation becomes more difficult because the emissivity of silicon may deviate significantly from the asymptotic value for an optically thick slice. A method will be presented by which both temperature and emissivity can be determined point by point and with a time resolution of several microseconds purely from thermal radiation data. The solution relies on a radiating reference source which for convenience has been chosen as a surface emitting nearly black radiation at two distinct temperatures. The analysis of an operating thyristor shows that rather large temperature gradients across the thickness of the device may exist with the peak temperature being displaced asymmetrically toward the cathode"
"Space-charge waves in a two-dimensional negative-mobility medium are described by a relatively simple and easy-touse expression for the complex propagation constant. Attention is focused on the dominant mode in the most important limit of low growth rate. Diffusion is included in the analysis. Whereas most previous workers imposed a stiff lateral-motion constraint at the surfaces of the drifting electron stream, we allow the electrons to move freely in the transverse direction at the lateral boundaries of the stream. This free-surface assumption corresponds to the partially depleted condition which prevails in many experiments. It has the effect of reducing diffusion damping and hence enhancing the growth of space-charge waves at high frequencies. The enhanced high-frequency growth rate makes the free-surface theory agree better with experimental data on thin-layer reflection and traveling-wave amplifiers than the stiff-surface theory does. Our results are cast in a form which allows heterogeneous dielectric media to be characterized by a single \"effective dielectric constant.\" Dielectric configurations considered include symmetrical and unsymmetrical combinations of simple dielectric media, multilayered dielectric media, and simple or multilayered dielectric media with metal backing."
"A new kind of charge-coupled device, the conductively connected charge-coupled device (C4D) has been built and operated. This device is formed by providing self-aligned, source-drain diffusions (or implants) between adjacent, refractory electrodes of a two-phase, ion implanted-barrier CCD. These implants eliminate the inherently unstable exposed channel region presently found in CCD's with coplanar gates, without resorting to overlapping gates. Shift registers ranging from 16 to 128 b in length were evaluated and in spite of low mobilities (80 cm2/V.s) and low barrier heights (2-3 V), incomplete transfer losses of 0.2 percent per transfer were measured at 1 MHz clock frequency. Fabrication has been demonstrated to be quite compatible with p-channel refractory gate IGFET technology, and because the sensitive interelectrode region of the C4D is heavily doped, these devices should show the same reliability as conventional circuits made with the same technology."
"A computer program has been developed that simulates two-dimensional dynamics of electrons and holes in a p-channel charge-coupled device. By using this program we have investigated the effects of two-dimensional device structure on surface-charge transfer, particularly a potential-barrier and fringing field. We have obtained the following results: 1) in case of a p-channel CCD negative charges on the SiO2film at a gap reduce the potential-barrier between transfer electrodes. This effect aids transfer of surface-charge in a CCD with wide gaps. 2) In transfer operation of a CCD with wide gaps, the signal charge must be less than a particular value so that a potential-barrier does not emerge. The particular value depends upon the device parameters and the transfer pulses. 3) The fringing field created by the adjacent electrode enhances the speed of surface-charge transfer. This effect increases with decreasing the transfer-electrode length and the signal charge level. 4) The computer results indicate that 100 percent transfer efficiency is obtained from the strong fringing field after the transfer time is equal to the transit time if no surface states exist."
"The increase in size of an image produced by a high intensity source is particularly troublesome in silicon diode array imaging devices. This increase is caused by inversion of Si under the SiO2between the diodes or by the lateral diffusion of the excess minority carriers in the field-free region of the sensor array. The formation of inversion layers can be eliminated by proper choice of the sheet resistance of the resistive sea when the target is operated above flat-band voltage. However, when the diodes in the image are fully discharged in a time interval shorter than the frametime, the excess carriers diffuse to the adjacent diodes and cause an increase in the size of the image. Such \"blooming\" is related to the effective minority carrier lifetime that is a function of surface recombination velocity at the imaging side of the target, surface recombination velocity at the diode side of the target, and bulk minority carrier lifetime. Two methods for controlling blooming will be discussed. In one case, the effective minority carrier lifetime is reduced by adjusting the n+doping profile at the imaging side of the array. The second technique requires diffusion of a separate p-type region, placed between the sensing diodes elements, which provides a high recombination region when the sensing diodes are discharged due to the image overload. Devices have been constructed with good imaging quality, where a 1 percent scan diagonal bright spot bloomed to 4 percent in the first technique, and to 2.5 percent in the second technique with a 105overload above saturation. The data are in good agreement with the theory."
"Assuming the conventional divisions of the semiconductor into depleted and neutral regions, it is shown that for an abrupt p-n junction with nondegenerate carriers a relation exists between the open circuit photovoltage and the PN product at the junction(PN)_{0}, which is valid for all signal levels. In the small-signal case this leads to the standard result. At intermediate levels a new relationV = KT/q (1 \\pm m) \\log_{e} ([(PN)_{0}]^{1/2}/n_{i})holds, the upper sign for p+-n junctions, the lower for n+-p junctions;m = (\\micro_{e}-\\micro_{h})/(\\micro_{e}+\\micro_{h}). At very high levels the photovoltage saturates toV = kT/q[log_{e}(M_{p}M_{n}/n_{i^{2}}) + m \\log_{e}(\\micro_{h}M_{p}/\\micro_{e}M_{N})]. Since Mpand MNare the doping levels in the p and n regions, the first term is the diffusion potential and the second term will be positive for p+-n junctions and negative for n+-p junctions. These results compare satisfactorily with the available experimental data."
"Exact solutions have been obtained for the equations of an electron subjected to a transverse rotating magnetic field superimposed on a homogeneous axial magnetic field. The solutions show that complete transfer of the axial energy into transverse energy is possible for a range of values of the injection velocity and the transverse magnetic field."
"This paper describes the structure and performance of a silicon-on-sapphire (SOS) dual-gate MOSFET-the SOS MOS tetrode. Extremely low-drain capacitance, negligible parasitics, and the absence of a semiconducting substrate make the device very attractive as a building block in UHF integrated systems. I-V characteristics are shown, and a simple small-signal model that is useful up to tens of megahertz is described. The expressions for the output resistance and gain functions for both gates are given. The UHF y-parameters for the tetrode are derived, based upon Hopkins' accurate UHF model for the MOS triode, utilizing the cascode configuration. The important parameters and the unilateral power gain are examined, and compared with measured values. Measurements confirm the extended UHF performance, negligible reverse transadmittance, and high-unilateral power gain. Variations of the y-parameters with bias are examined; low-frequency voltage gain factor, µ, and UHF power gain, Gp, are compared as functions of gate voltage. All derivations assumed f = 500 MHz as the frequency of interest but appear to be valid up to low gigahertz range."
"An analysis is presented for third-order and second-order nonlinear distortion as a function of frequency for a transistor biased in the common-emitter configuration. It is found that, at high frequency, it is the curvature in the loaded cutoff frequency versus collector current curve that determines the degree of intermodulation distortion. Design proposals for obtaining linear cutoff frequency curves (i.e., small third-order distortion) will be discussed."
"High-energy ion implantation is coupled with the conventional planar technology to realize a silicon FET for power application. This device known as \"Gridistor\" is a multichannel FET with a p-type buried as gate. Boron implantation at various energies (600-900 keV) through a metallic mask are used to do a high-doped p-type gate layer, 0.8 µ thick and buried 1 µ below the surface. Since there is no implantation induced defects in the active regions of the device, low annealing temperature can be effectively used. As a consequence, the pattern sharpness is only limited by the definition of the mask. Using ion-etched gold layer as mask, 1 µ wide channels are made in a reproductible way. Few test structures have been made to check the behavior of implantation and planar technologies by measuring their capaci tances, transconductance, and I-V characteristics."
"Thin sheets of resistive material deposited on epitaxial GaAs in order to provide uniform electric field profiles are predicted to still allow microwave gain while suppressing instabilities at all lower frequencies. The gain threshold frequency depends upon the device thickness, the surface resistance of the resistive layer, etc. The mode exhibits a higher cutoff frequency beyond which the gain is not possible because of the severe diffusion losses. Broad-band gain is predicted in the 10-20 GHz range."
"Computer analysis of a series connected GaAs IMPATT diode is presented. Very good agreement between theoretical appraisal and the experimental observations is obtained. A better thermal dissipation and a smaller parasitic capacitance are the solution to the key problem areas for the series connected device."
"The accuracy of the usual expression of the high-frequency semiconductor capacitance is investigated by means of a charge-analysis model which takes into account the minority carrier rearrangement within the inversion layer due to the ac signal. In the range of doping concentrations of practical interest, it is found that the errors never exceed 5 percent, even in the strong inversion region."
"A simple method is described for the characterization of uniformly doped epitaxial layers from the capacitance-voltage measurements of a diffused p-n junction, considering the peripheral effect due to the sidewall junction and the diffused layer effect due to the depletion region in the heavily doped side of the junction."
"The new analytical method for treating diffusive reflections is employed to study a microwave-tube electron collector incorporating a small transverse magnetic field. It is shown that the collection efficiency (i.e., the ratio of absorbed to incident electrons) can be greatly increased, with the proposed new Faraday cage as the number of high-energy reflected electrons is reduced."
"Recent experimental observations on a Schottky-barrier GaAs IMPATT diode for F-band operation are presented. The diode slices were thinned to 10 to 20 µm by removing the substrate by precision polishing. Output power of 304 mW at 50 GHz with 4.58 percent efficiency was observed. The highest efficiency was 4.72 percent at 55 GHz."
"Silicon-aluminum gate complementary IGFET'S have been fabricated with threshold voltages in the range of 0.5-0.7 V. This was accomplished by a two-source evaporation process in which aluminum and at least 10 percent silicon were used for the gate electrode."
 "An error in the above-mentioned paper is noted. It is shown that the general conclusions of the paper remain valid, while the accuracy of the calculated dynamic impedance is substantially improved when the error is corrected."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A one-dimensional large-signal computer program that incorporates the material parameters of Si in an exact manner has been employed to compare the efficiency, power output, and other important operating characteristics of both complementary structures of Si IMPATT diodes. The results presented here differ greatly from those already reported by other authors."
"According to McCumber [1] a Gunn diode with an ohmic cathode (i.e., \"differential cathode conductivity\"\\sigma_{c} = \\delta) is stable in a constant-voltage circuit ifn_{0}L \\le (n_{0}L)_{crit} \\equiv 2.7 \\times 10^{11}cm-2wheren_{0}Lis the doping-length product. We show that the same stability criterion applies to Gunn diodes with an injection-limiting cathode(\\sigma_{c} \\rightarrow 0), if(n_{0}L)_{crit}is allowed to be a function of\\sigma_{c}L. The value of(n_{0}L)_{crit}increases by 30 percent if(\\sigma_{c}L)varies from infinity (ohmic cathode) to zero (injection-limiting cathode). If a cathode with negative differential conductivity is realizable, it may be possible to extend the(n_{0}L)region of stable operation of Gunn diodes drastically."
"The scanning limitations of rms-responding liquid-crystal devices as influenced by device characteristics, the type of matrix addressing scheme, and waveform tolerances are quantified in this paper. An rms selection scheme that yields a greater number of scanned lines than a 3:1 selection scheme is presented and analyzed, together with a two-frequency addressing scheme that overcomes limitations on scanning associated with the cutoff frequency for dynamic-scattering, Dynamic-scattering liquid-crystal displays are the main emphasis of this paper. However, many of the results apply to field-effect liquid-crystal displays."
"Taking into account the heavy doping effects (i.e., band tailing and impurity band formation) and high temperature effects, the Fermi level in lightly and heavily compensated phosphorus doped silicon, at normal diffusion temperatures is calculated numerically from the charge neutrality condition. The effective intrinsic carrier concentration is a function of the doping level and of the degree of compensation. Above discussed impurity concentration dependent results are used to calculate the impurity activity coefficient, the vacancy activity coefficient, and the concentration of the total number of vacancies as a function of doping and temperature."
"A series of p-type IMPATT diodes (p+pn+) have been fabricated from epitaxially grown silicon for operation as oscillators at Ka-band frequencies. A maximum CW output power level of 700 mW at 29.6 GHz, a maximum conversion efficiency of 10.9 percent, and a minimum FM noise parameter, M, of 25 dB have been measured on this series of p-type diodes. A diode oscillating in a variable height radial disk cavity was frequency tuned from 27.5 to 40 GHz, covering the entire Ka-band, with a 1.4 dB power variation over the tuning range. The minimum CW output power of this tunable oscillator was 360 mW at 6.5 percent efficiency."
"A multilayer color display device employs two kinds of liquid-crystal films, One is a field-effect nematic liquid crystal; the other comprises a mixture of cholesteric and nematic liquid crystals that have the same function as circular polarizers used in place of crossed polarizers. Three colors (red, green, and blue) can be modulated independently by changing three voltages."
"Schottky barriers with a thermally oxidized mesa structure have been fabricated. The fabrication process is described. The mesa structure averts electric field crowding at the barrier periphery. The reverse diode characteristic shows a sharp breakdown at the voltage expected for an ideal, abrupt diode of semi-infinite extent and identical doping concentration."
"Using a simple model an expression has been derived relating the oxide current to the offset gate voltage in the stacked gate MOS tetrode."
"A method is described by which one can quickly and easily measure the junction-to-ambient thermal resistance of Gunn diodes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theoretical analysis is made of the field distribution near the surface of p-n-p structures with double positive edge geometry. This geometry offers in principle the possibility of avoiding the limitations and disadvantages inherent in the use of negative bevel angles. The results show that the reduction of the maximum field at the surface is not as easy as for the case of a simple positive bevel angle and that consequently the passivation of the surface may present more problems. Nevertheless, it is demonstrated that this geometry offers a number of great advantages and presents a real alternative for use in future high-voltage devices. A number of devices, dimensioned for a breakdown voltage of 6 kV, were made with this edge geometry. The measurements show that the reverse current corresponds to the thermally generated current in the space-charge layer and that no significant current flows at the surface. The breakdown voltage corresponds to the theoretical breakdown voltage in the bulk, unlike in the case of double negative beveling. The advantages of this geometry with respect to the conventional negative bevel angle are no significant reduction of active area, no dependence on the doping profile, and no limitation in voltage. A disadvantage, however, is the presence of higher fields at the surface."
"The theory which gives the space-charge contribution to the trace width in a cathode ray tube (CRT) is extended to mesh-expansion postdeflection acceleration (PDA) tubes. This is done in an approximation that neglects the space-charge repulsion in the final beam acceleration region of the CRT. Comparison with experimental results indicates that the approximation is valid. The problem leads to nonelementary functions that must be solved numerically. A graph giving the space-charge contribution to trace width is provided for a range of basic tube parameters. The results are also interesting for qualitative understanding of the role that space charge plays in PDA tubes."
"Gray-scale facsimile recording is achieved by using a special electrode arrangement together with the common electrostatic printing technique. The original optical density of a document is reconstructed on an electrostatic recording medium by varying size and charge density of small charged dots. Thus, the developed charged dots allow a continuous gray scale with optical densities in the limits of 0.05 and 1.6 according to the developing procedure. The resolution of this recording technique may be increased up to 10 dots/mm depending on the geometry of the printing device and the scan mode. A recording speed of several pictures per second of size A4 is possible."
"The analysis of the external circuit response and internal behavior of an electron-bombarded semiconductor diode (EBS target) has been extended using static and dynamic computer simulation techniques. This work complements the previous simplest case analytical treatment of target operation and makes possible the accurate evaluation of high-level target response with any or all of the following effects: arbitrary input current waveform; arbitrary pair-creation profile corresponding to arbitrary values of incident electron energy and drift-region width; operation where both electrons and holes contribute significantly to the target current; electric-field-dependent carrier drift velocities; arbitrary profile of drift-region doping; and effects due to carrier diffusion and recombination. Operation of the computer programs is briefly described for the static and time-dependent cases. Output waveforms and time-varying internaI electric field profiles are shown for two representative cases that violate the assumptions of the simplest case analytical treatment. The first target design shows that 500 A of output current can be switched into a 0.5-Ω load with 0.5-ns risetime. The second target design illustrates the effects that occur when the beam-generated electron-hole pair creation extends completely across the drift region. The analysis of this target also shows that current pulses of 30 A can be switched with a 40-ps risetime into a 1.4-Ω load. A comparison with experimental results shows good agreement under static and dynamic conditions."
"Lateral surface transport of charges under the gate electrode of MOS capacitors from localized photogeneration of electrons and holes are studied by observing the transient photocurrent through the MOS capacitor. The photocurrent is highly non-linear under a step function illumination. It shows a large initial spike (phase I), whose length is independent of device area, followed by a slow decay (phase II), whose length increases for high light intensity and for large device area. Detailed time dependence data indicate that phage I comes from the flattening of the surface energy band in the illuminated area, which causes an initial surge of charges in the lateral direction driven by a constant voltage source, and phase II from the slow and areally uniform charging up of the entire interface under the gate. Theoretical calculations of the photocurrent waveforms were carried out using a simple transmission line model for phase I and one-lump model for phase II based on physical considerations. Excellent agreements between the theories and the observed photocurrent waveforms are obtained."
"Expressions for the modulation transfer function due to minority carrier diffusion in charge coupled imagers are calculated, following the approach used by Crowell and Labuda. Both front and rear optical illumination of the charge coupled imager are considered; for the rear illumination case interference effects are included. The modulation transfer function for high energy electron excitation is also considered. In all cases, the expressions for the modulation transfer function have been evaluated using typical charge coupled imager parameters. The quantum efficiency predicted by the minority carrier diffusion model is also briefly discussed."
"An analytical solution for the static temperature distribution on the surface of a heat-sinked integrated chip with one isothermal heat source is derived. The mathematical technique applied to solve the Laplace equation is a double Schwarz-Christoffel conformal transformation. Perturbations in the temperature distribution due to the heat source and the chip finite length are evaluated as well as the temperature losses in the vicinity of the heat source. Explicit expressions of the normalized temperature and thermal input conductance are given and analyzed as a function of the source and chip relative dimensions."
"Analytical approximations for the multiplication factors Mnand Mpin Ge and Si one-sided abrupt junctions are given. The resulting expressions account for different α and β ionization rates and are quite accurate. With further approximations on the ionization integrals, very simple expressions of 1 -- 1/M both for electron and holes in the range of very low multiplication are obtained, depending from a single ionization rate."
"The electroluminescent properties of Au-polycrystalline GaP barriers have been studied. IR, red, and green bands are present under avalanche regime, while at forward bias IR radiation is produced. Quantum efficiency reaches 5 × 10-5in the red band. Medium-size, low cost GaP LED can be achieved."
"The electron velocity-field characteristic has been determined for a large number of samples of InP by the microwave absorption technique. The values obtained for the electric field at the peak of the velocity-field curve are corrected for relaxation effects by comparison with a computer simulation, and the resulting values lie in the range 7.2-9.8 kV/cm-1. The corrected negative dynamic mobility just beyond the peak velocity varied between 0.3 and 0.5 of the low-field mobility."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Whereas the majority of methods evaluating properties of the interface between silicon and silicon dioxide requires (quasi-) equilibrium conditions of the sample, pulse and linear ramp techniques consider nonequilibrium behavior. A theoretical model of nonequilibrium behavior within the semiconductor deep depletion layer, and its consequences for the formation of an inversion region is presented providing current-voltage plots for comparison with the experimental results and discussion of various parameters (temperature and ramp velocity). The influence of donor- or acceptor-type interface states is also considered under the aspect of different temperatures. Thus some decision concerning the type is provided leading to the outlines of exact treatment, if states of either type are present."
"Equivalent gate-noise voltage magnitudes of MOSFET's and JFET's have been measured by a direct method for the frequency range of 20 Hz-9 kHz. Results of a number of theoretical analyses of MOSFET flicker noise have been combined to yield a generalized expression for the drain-noise current. Experimental results showing the bias, temperature, and frequency dependence of the noise have been presented and carefully examined in cognizance with the divergent nature of various theories and relevant published experimental data."
"By considering the starting-time fluctuation of domain formation and the fluctuation of domain-formation time caused by thermal noise, the front-edge fluctuation of the output current pulse of a Gunn device is obtained. Taking the Fourier transform of the output current-pulse train with these front-edge fluctuations, we obtain the equivalent noise-current source due to the thermal noise of Gunn oscillators. Solving Kurokawa's oscillator equation including this equivalent noise-current source, an expression for thermally induced FM noise in Gunn oscillators is derived. The result is in good agreement with experimental data. These results are applied to estimate thermally induced jitter in Gunn-effect digital devices."
"The final stages of transfer of charge from under a storage gate is formulated analytically including both fringing-field induced drift and diffusion. Analytic solutions to these equations are presented for constant fringing fields, and a system of equations for spatially varying fields is developed. Approximate solutions for spatially varying fringing fields, when combined with a lumped-parameter model of the self-induced field effects, are shown to give a reasonably accurate representation of the free-charge transfer process."
"Technology for the fabrication of fully ion-implanted bipolar transistors with arsenic emitters and boron bases is described. This technology results in extremely uniform distributions of electrical parameters, e.g,, hFE= 113 with a standard deviation of 1.3 across a wafer. In addition, it can produce a wide range of doping profiles and hence, a wide range of device performance. Using very similar processing schedules, transistors with hFEfrom 20 to >5000 and with fT's from 1.5 to 8.1 GHz have been made. The features of implanted arsenic which make it an excellent emitter are: 1) it can be implanted to high doses with only a small deep side tail which has a negligible effect on the typical transistor base; 2) because of the concentration dependence of its diffusion constant, it forms a very abrupt profile after diffusion; and 3) when diffused a short distance (∼1000 Å) away from the implanted region, high-lifetime material can be incorporated into the emitter and hence, high-gain low-leakage transistors can be made. When the arsenic emitter is combined with a double-peaked boron-implanted base, precise independent control of the active and inactive base properties of the device can be achieved. This independence allows considerable latitude in the choice of device parameters for fully implanted bipolar transistors."
"Repetitive cyclical surface switching in thin polycrystalline films of NiO(Li) has been observed and is compared to a switching through the film. Characteristic switching parameters, such as the threshold field, turn-on and turn-off times are found to be the same in both cases. However, the lifetime of the switching devices is ∼103switching cycles longer for the surface-electrode configuration, which is partly attributable to an improved heat exchange with substrate."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "We present a mathematical model for the exposure of electron-sensitive resists where an electron beam is incident normal to a substrate coated with a thin layer of resist. We include both the scattering of the incident electrons as they penetrate the resist and the electrons backscattered from within the resist and from the substrate. The calculations yield contours of equal absorbed energy density, and these are interpreted as the contours which bound the resist after development. The absorbed energy density is found as the sum, for all electrons, of the product of the energy absorbed per unit length of trajectory and the flux density of electrons at the point in question. We first calculate the absorbed energy density for an electron beam of vanishingly small cross section (an incident delta function) and then convolve that result with a beam of Gaussian current-density distribution to obtain the reSult for a single beam location. For poly(methyl methacrylate) resist, we study the achievable dot resolution, as a function of the incident charge, for various incident energies-and substrates. Since our main interest is in computer-controlled resist exposures in which patterns are generated as a succession of dots, we calculate the absorbed energy density contours for a line generated in that manner. Detailed comparison is made with the experimental results of Wolf et al., by fitting a single point on one contour at one beam energy to account for the unknown developer sensitivity. The resulting contours predict the undercutting effect experimentally observed for the 5-20-keV beam energies studied. The developed shape and linewidth are found to be nonlinear functions of the incident charge per unit length. Experimental data for the linewidth at 20 keV are presented and compared with theory."
"An approach is presented for implementing a fully programmable transversal filter using surface charge-transfer techniques. Summation of the signals from each output tap is performed automatically by using common output electrodes, and fixed binary tap weights are Provided by selectively controlling the transfer of charge within each cell. Charge packets representing a sampled data input signal are inserted into individual cells where they remain until they are replaced by a new sample. Any combination of these packets can be nondestructively read during any clock cycle with the output being automatically summed. Since the charge does not leave the cell, but is simply \"sloshed\" back and forth within it during a read-out cycle, charge-transfer losses are not cumulative in this structure. The application of these structures in various familiar signal-processing functions is discussed, and both experimental results and theoretical expressions for their performance are presented. Experimental results on a simple test cell include reading the same charge more than 5 × 105times and demonstrating a charge-transfer loss of less than 10-7per transfer."
"Design equations for electron beam-semiconductor (EBS) bandpass amplifiers using large-area diodes are discussed. The large-area diodes are used to enhance power output and efficiency, particularly in the case of average-power amplifiers. Both class A and class B modes are treated."
"Methods are described for finding the position, radius, and strength of ideal current loops to represent the magnetic field of 1) a partially immersed convergent electron gun, 2) a short solenoid, using the Helmholtz concept extended to triplets and quadruplets, and 3) a periodic permanent magnet (P.P.M.) focusing stack for a TWT. The parameters of the coils then constitute a complete description of the magnetic field with no paraxial approximation."
"A liquid-crystal display device is reported combining a polarizer, a deformation of aligned phases (DAP) cell, a twisted nematic (TN) cell, and an analyzer in series arrangement. The color of the transmitted light can be modulated by the application of voltage to the DAP cell. The transmission properties of the device can be switched from the DAP mode for crossed polarizers to that for parallel polarizers by the application of voltage to the TN cell. This improves control of the transmitted color."
"Taking advantage of the nuclear reaction30Si(n,γ)31Siβ-→31P, silicon was doped with phosphorus. The resistivity was set to values between 2 and 200 Ω.cm. The measured resistivity profiles show the macroscopically homogeneous distribution of the dopant. Photographs of the breakdown radiation emitted from diodes show that the silicon is also free from striation-like microvariations of the resistivity. The diodes and thyristors prepared from the homogeneously doped silicon had blocking capabilities between 400 and 5200 V."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"High-efficiency performance of GaAs Schottky-Read IMPATT diodes has been observed at X-band frequencies. The highest efficiency measured was 26.1 percent with 2.5-W continuous-wave (CW) output power at 8.8 GHz for a single-mesa diode while multiple-mesa diodes have delivered more than 7 W at X band. The diodes were fabricated from multiple-layer epitaxial material with gold-plated heat sinks. Details of materials preparation and diode fabrication are presented. Theoretical calculations of diode breakdown voltage and efficiencies have been made as a function of the structural properties of the diodes. Good agreement has been obtained between the experimental microwave oscillator performance and the theoretical calculations."
"The use of ion implantation for close threshold control of N-MOS and P-MOS transistors has been studied from an experimental and theoretical viewpoint. Experimental determinations of ion-implanted diffusion profiles, sheet resistivities, and threshold voltages for boron, phosphorus, and arsenic implantations are reported for doses in the range from 1 × 1011to 1 × 1014ions/cm2. Care has been taken to ensure accuracy of implanted dose in the 35-150 keV range in order to permit direct comparison of experiments with theory. Satisfactory agreement is observed between experiment and computer predictions using only the implantation dose and energy. The analytical model tested assumed outdiffusion in a neutral ambient from an implanted Gaussian layer. Experimental tests of the calculation are made for thresholds, sheet-resistance profiles, and amounts of dopant lost to the oxide masking layer. The theoretical model has been used as a basis for threshold control. The application of these principles is related to the practical fabrication of COSMOS circuits with close threshold control through suitable selection of starting substrate material and implantation conditions."
"Blooming, the lateral spreading of charge from an intensely illuminated area of an image sensor, can be present in an especially objectionable form in charge-coupled devices. Bright lines are formed in the display, owing to a charge propagation along the transfer channels. The introduction of overflow drains, i.e., stripes of a reverse-biased p-n junction placed between the transfer channels, provides a well-defined leakage path for excess carriers from saturated potential wells. An implanted threshold barrier between these drains and the integrating potential wells determines the saturation potential of the integration sites and prevents the total collapse of the associated depletion region. Therefore, the lateral diffusion of minority carriers is also greatly reduced. An existing design of a charge-coupled area image sensor with 64 × 106 resolution elements and frame transfer organization has been modified to study these methods of blooming suppression. The lateral distance of charge spreading has been reduced by a factor of seven at overload conditions of 20 dB. For stronger overloads the booming suppression becomes even more striking, but the performance of the device iS limited by frame transfer smearing. Furthermore, lens flare limits most optical systems at overloads above 30 dB. However, by using an optical fiber, well-localized overloads of 50 dB could be generated. Although, in our particular test device, the addition of blooming suppression reduced the light sensitivity by a factor of four, other geometries for overflow drain structures that should result in only a negligible loss in sensitivity are discussed."
"A theory is formulated which describes the noise properties of IMPATT-diode oscillators operating at large-signal levels. This theory is based directly on the work of Convert [17] and Hines [18]. The theory takes into account the signal dependence of the noise generation process, and also the intermodulation effects occurring between the various frequency bands. The equations are conveniently arranged in matrix form; such a formulation provides physical insight and facilitates the obtaining of quantitative results in terms of measurable noise parameters. The AM, FM, and low-frequency noise of low-Q IMPATT-diode oscillators operating at high output power levels has been measured and compared with the values predicted by this theory. Si p+-n, Si n+-p, and n-GaAs S.B. IMPATT diodes have been used. Agreement between the measured and theoretically predicted values is good. Special experimental evidence for the signal dependence of the noise-generating mechanism is obtained by considering the ratio of the AM and FM noise. The Comparatively few measurements published on the correlation between AM, FM, and low-frequency noise have been compared with our theoretical results; as far as can be judged, the trends are similar. Finally, an experiment is described in which a Si n+-p diode was used in a high-Q Kurokawa circuit. The experimental value of the rms frequency deviation of 0.8 Hz in a 100-Hz bandwidth was found to be in reasonable agreement with the present theory, extended with an equivalent circuit describing the high-Q circuit."
"The vertical multijunction solar cell is a photovoltaic device which may allow conversion efficiencies higher than conventional planar devices. A one-dimensional model of the device is presented here which allows a simple and straightforward analysis of device performance to be conducted. The analysis covers the derivation of device short-circuit current, saturation current, open-circuit voltage, and maximum power as a function of illumination spectra, device geometry, and device material properties."
"Two-dimensional numerical solutions of Poisson's equation and the carrier continuity equation for the short-gate GaAS field-effect transistor structure have been used to predict device performance. However, a generally accepted simplified approach to FET design has not evolved. In this paper, a simplified design technique and an iterative device analysis procedure are presented for application to GaAs FET's with gate lengths as small as 1 µm. The design technique makes it possible to determine drain saturation current and saturation transconductance for any gate size by simply scaling the appropriate curves for an FET with a 1-µm gate. Curves are also presented that relate the effective transconductance to the intrinsic transconductance for any FET geometry. The iterative analysis procedure makes it possible to determine the doping, ND, and thickness, a, of the epitaxial layer on which the device is fabricated. By simply measuring drain current and transconductance at zero gate bias and the pinchoff voltage, a method is presented which allows the epi parameters to be determined in a self-consistent fashion. This technique provides a way of mapping NDand a over a slice, as opposed to the usual technique of simply measuring pinchoff voltage (only gives ND.a2product variations)."
"A MOSFET model that is capable of handling the drain current above 10-10A within the temperature range of 220-340 K is proposed. The key feature of the model is that surface potentials at source and pinchoff points are used for the purpose of obtaining a smooth connection between the current solutions in the tail and the saturation regions. Comparison of the model with experiments has been carried out using n-channel MOSFET's with 7 × 1013, 7 × 1014, and 4 × 1015cm-3substrate impurity concentration and 675-, 1470-, and 5030-Å gate-oxide thickness. The theoretical calculations are in excellent agreement with the experimental measurements. It is shown that low-level current has a strong influence on the low-voltage static inverter circuit and dynamic memory."
"This paper describes the theory of operatien and the performance of a new dc-operated plasma display device using a constricted-glow discharge. The device consists of a transparent anode and a cathode for the gas discharge and a thin glass plate etched with a rectangular array of electroded holes, which is placed between the electrodes. A constricted-glow discharge occurs through only one hole at a time and causes brighter light emission than the usual glow discharge. The bright spot of the constricted glow can be transferred along the lines of holes by applying a scanning pulse voltage sequentially to each of the electrodes on the holes. By operation in the one element-at-a-time scanning mode and modulating the magnitude of the discharge current, alphanumeric characters and TV pictures with gray scale can be displayed on the device. Present experimental display panels have 48 × 65 picture elements, and display pictures have an average luminance as high as 60 fL and a contrast ratio of about 20:1."
"The resolution capability of image intensifiers is customarily assumed as proportional to the magnification of the tube. An equation is presented to calculate resolution a priori as a function of magnification, applicable to tubes with fiber-optic faceplates. in addition, a method is suggested to improve the resolution capability of multistage tubes."
"The existence of current instabilities in epitaxial coplanar Gunn diodes was observed as a function of the nd product for air and oxide surface loading. Theoretical considerations indicate that the GaAs substrate and a surface depletion layer may substantially affect the stability of coplanar devices."
"This correspondence reports results of investigations concerning a glow discharge under normal pressure and temperature conditions. Because of its high current efficiency and its good charging uniformity, the glow discharge is well suited for electrophotographic devices (charging as well as discharging) and for contactless discharging of clear dielectric foils."
"An analysis of the spectral response of the Cu2S-CdS photovoltaic cell is presented and for a typical cell curves illustrating the probable effect of grain size on the response are plotted. Wide variation of spectral response of such cells has been observed, and a possible explanation for such variation is suggested."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theoretical and experimental study is carried out to quantitatively analyze the effect of emitter ballasting on thermal instabilities in high power density transistors. The analysis includes factors such as thermal resistance, emitter and base resistances, collector dissipation, etc., affecting thermal runaway. In particular, numerical computations are presented to describe current-voltage characteristics as they relate to thermal instability with emitter ballast resistance and the collector bias voltage as parameters. The agreement between theory and experiment is shown to be excellent. The study yields a minimum value of ballast resistance above which there is unconditional thermal stability."
"A new solid-state frequency indicator composed of a piezoelectric element and a liquid-crystal coating is fabricated, and first-order theoretical predictions are verified experimentally. The signal voltage is applied across the thickness of the piezoelectric element which is tapered in width along its length. As frequency is varied, the temperature rises locally near the region where the width is a half of a wavelength, because of vibration loss. This increase in temperature causes a color change of the liquid-crystal coating, and the position indicates the frequency of the applied signal. 7-8 s of rise and fall time are measured, and about 10 mW of electric power is sufficient for visual indication with a local temperature rise of several degrees centigrade. Many modificatios and applications should be possible."
"A gate controlled structure is described. It is shown to be a convenient device for measuring mobility and concentration profile of majority carriers in diffused zones. The values of these two parameters are derived from measurements of gate capacitance and resistivity as a function of gate voltage. Various ways of obtaining C-V deep-depletion curves are discussed in order to justify the choice of a gate controlled structure. The measurement technique is discussed. Limitations of the method are due, on one hand, to the depletion approximation and, on the other hand, to an excessive reverse current across the diffused junction induced by the gate voltage. This effect is encountered especially in low-concentration samples, such as ours, in the range of 1015-1016cm-3. For illustration purposes, profiles of a p diffusion used in the MOSC process are measured at the beginning and at the end of the fabrication process."
"A generally accepted theory for bipolar transistors operated at high current densities has not yet been established. Controversy exists as to whether high current Performance is affected primarily by vertical or lateral phenomena. This paper solves the high injection problem by means of a two-dimensional numerical algorithm. The results of some calculations pertaining to a particular example show that base push-out is clearly the dominating mechanism. Emitter crowding caused by lateral majority-carrier current flow in the active base is moderated by base conductivity modulation; it is, however, not negligible. The major limitation of the present work results from the fact that high doping effects are not considered. Thus accurate hFEpredictions cannot be given."
"The lateral diffusion of zinc and tin in GaAs, during their diffusion through windows in phosphosilicate glass (PSG) masks, has been measured as a function of oxide composition and oxide thickness. Lateral diffusion of zinc extends up to 20 times the junction depth, whereas the lateral diffusion of tin extends up to 500 times the junction depth, interfacial stress between mask and substrate has been shown to be the driving force for the large lateral diffusion. A method of eliminating the stress gradient by using a thin oxide (1000 Å) in the diffusion windows has resulted in reducing the lateral diffusion to less than 2.5 µm, the resolution of the measurement technique, for diffusion with a junction depth of 1 µm. A new method of measuring the expansion coefficients of thin dielectric layers has been presented. The expansion coefficients of PSG films with 0-30% P2O5content by weight have been measured using this method. Further, stresses in PSG films deposited on GaAS have been measured as a function of oxide composition."
"A thyristor structure is provided with an anode-gate electrode which is used to speed up the device recovery and reduce its turn-off time. The turn-off process of the anode-gate thyristor is analyzed qualitatively using the charge control approach. Experimental device structures are described and the results of measurements are reported."
"Results taken from monolithic acoustic surface-wave amplifiers which employ the interaction between carriers drifting in a semiconductor film and electric fields accompanying a Rayleigh wave propagating on a piezoelectric substrate are described. The experimental devices were fabricated in vacuum by flash evaporation of a InSb compound onto heated substrates of LiNbO3or Bi12GeO20. Theoretical and experimental amplifier results are presented for several different pulsed operating monolithic devices. The results include measurements of electronic and terminal gain, saturation power, and noise figure as a function of bias voltage, and gain and phase dispersion as a function of frequency. Results are also given for a two film device which uses field effect to alter the conductivity of the amplifier film. Results from continuously operating samples fabricated by etching the semiconductor to a strip 25 µm in width are summarized."
"A thorough investigation has been given to second breakdown (SB) behaviors in transistors under reverse biased-base condition, and three types of behaviors have been shown: normal (without SB), and partial SB, as well as complete SB, which appear after very short delay times. The last two behaviors are shown to involve an electrothermal switching mechanism which operates at emitter collector voltages above the open base avalanche value VECO(a* > 1). Effects of local base punchthrough are shown which may also be important in some forward bias SB behaviors."
"An analysis leading to some basic relations is performed on a one-dimensional model of a buried-channel charge-coupled device (CCD). Expressions for the charge distribution, potential, channel thickness, and location are obtained. These enable the effects of varying the device structural parameters, as well as the gate voltage and signal charge, to be examined very simply. The maximum charge-carrying capacity is discussed and compared to that for a surface-type CCD. Furthermore, the analysis is extended to a device with a nonuniformly doped semiconductor layer."
"A new type of negative resistance diode having a Λ-type I-V characteristic is presented. The device is constructed by a functional integration of two complementary FET's of an n- and p-channel depletion mode. The operational principle together with some experimental results are described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The voltage distribution in an electrooptic light-valve structure, consisting of an isotropic dielectric layer and a dielectrically anisotropic longitudinal electrooptic crystal sandwiched between conducting electrodes, has been analyzed in detail for the case where a spatial modulation in the charge density is introduced at the interface. The sensitivity of this sandwich structure is then defined as the reciprocal of the charge density necessary to produce the half-wave voltage across the electrooptic material. Several devices reported in the literature are then compared on a uniform plot of sensitivity versus spatial modulation frequency. The theoretical curves indicate graphically that, though the material characteristics alone determine the high-spatial-frequency sensitivity, the layer thicknesses drastically affect the low-spatial-frequency sensitivity. Since the electrooptic material and the isotropic dielectric material are usually chosen because certain characteristics (photoconductivity, optical perfection, low half-wave voltage, etc.) make them uniquely suited for a particular device, the major additional choice available in the design of the electrooptic light valve is this tradeoff of sensitivity for spatial bandwidth."
"A design is described for an infrared sensing MOSFET (IRFET). The high-gain high-resolution dc or static readout and inherent integrating and memory characteristics of the infrared sensing MOSFET should make it ideal for infrared imaging and target tracking applications employing a large-scale integrated array. The devices are based on silicon MOSFET technology where large-scale integrated arrays are routinely fabricated."
"The performance of a television camera using the one-inch pyroelectric vidicon has been measured. The results are compared with an analysis which attempts to identify the factors limiting the performance of the system. Two modes of operation are considered; chopping the incident radiation with a shutter and panning the camera. The measurements indicate that the camera panning mode produces the better performance. At low spatial frequency a scene temperature difference of 0.2°C may be detected."
"A quasi-static large-signal model of an IMPATT diode with general doping profile is derived. The numerical solution of this model has been implemented in a Fortran IV program which executes economically. This model has been used to analyze large-and small-signal admittances of GaAs double-drift and quasi-Read IMPATT diodes. The small-signal results are in good agreement with calculations done using a linearized small-signal model. The large-signal calculations exhibit power and efficiency saturation when reasonable values of parasitic resistance are included and are in good agreement with experimental GaAs diode performance. The generalized quasi-static formulation simplifies analysis of IMPATT structures with arbitrary doping profiles, specifically those with distributed avalanche zones, by providing the correspondence between these devices and the Read diode model."
"Analytical and experimental investigations of the transient thermal behavior of Trapatt diodes are presented. Although oriented to Trapatt diodes, the techniques described are equally applicable to numerous other solid state devices operated in a pulsed mode. Junction temperature calculations are made as a function of diode geometry, heat sink materials, dissipated power level, and pulsewidths up to 50 µs. Experimental measurements using infrared and voltage breakdown techniques are described. Guidelines for transient junction temperature minimization are given."
"A method of direct measurement of the admittance in X band seen by an encapsulated solid-state oscillator embedded in microwave hardware is described. It is applicable to many two-terminal devices in waveguide, coaxial line or microstrip circuit configurations. The criterion for oscillation in negative conductance oscillators is used in conjunction with these admittance measurements to determine the complete frequency-dependent 'device-plane' of Gunn and IMPATT devices in S4 (pill-prong) encapsulations, and the forms of negative conductance and susceptance variation with RF voltage amplitude and frequency have been extracted for each of these devices. It is found that for transferred-electron devices in particular, the frequency dependence of these parameters over X band is very marked. The use of the admittance measuring technique to characterize the microwave circuit is discussed with reference to the improvement of AM and FM noise by the controlled insertion of perturbations in the admittance locus, and an example is given of its use in fault-finding in a mechanically tunable waveguide oscillator."
"The ferroelectric field effect has successfully been demonstrated on a bulk semiconductor (silicon) using a thin ferroelectric film of bismuth titanate (Bi4Ti3O12) deposited onto it by RF sputtering. A new memory device, the metal-ferroelectric-semiconductor transistor (MFST); has been fabricated. This device utilizes the remanent polarization of a ferroeletric thin film to control the surface conductivity of a bulk semiconductor substrate and perform a memory function. The capacitance-voltage characteristics of the metal-ferroelectric-semiconductor structure were employed to study the memory behavior. The details of the study together with a preliminary results on the MFST are presented."
"The theory is developed for the characteristics of a Schottky-barrier-gate Gunn-effect digital-device (SBG GEDD). The four basic parameters, i.e., relative field drop, minimum trigger-field, minimum trigger-pulse duration, and trigger capability, are defined and evaluated numerically for GaAs. Then the device characteristics such as output current, maximum trigger sensitivity, trigger capability, amplification factor, fan-out, noise margin, jitter, unidirectionality, and power-delay product, are derived and calculated for SBG GEDD's with different doping densities and different sizes by using the results of preliminary measurements. The features of SBG GEDD are 1) great trigger capability, 2) good trigger sensitivity, 3) high unidirectionality, 4) small input capacitance, 5) high response-speed and short delay time, 6) small power-delay product, 7) large fan-out, and 8) simple device and circuit constructions. Some applications are demonstrated to high-speed pulse repeaters and logic circuits."
"The interaction between two waves in nondissipative and dissipative systems is analyzed with the general principles of coupled mode theory. It is shown that the character of the interaction is determined by the product C12C21of the coupling coefficients. The extreme cases of purely real and purely imaginary values of C12C21correspond to the nondissipative and dissipative systems, respectively. The results of the analysis are applied to the case of acoustic amplification."
"In power thyristors and transistors, it is important to inject or remove carriers uniformly and rapidly across the entire junction area. Among the reasons are the following. 1) The switching losses are reduced, thus allowing a higher load-current rating of the device. 2) A thyristor becomes capable to turn off the load current by gate control, thereby eliminating commutating components and their losses. Uniform carrier injection or withdrawal and other desirable side effects are accomplished by a gate- (base) emitter interdigitation in the form of equidistant involutes of a circle."
"The optimization of double-drift silicon IMPATT's at X band has been explored. This work has involved the fabrication and study of Read-like diodes with various finite avalanche widths made by various energy implantations between two epitaxially grown \"drift\" zones. These diodes are compared to uniformly doped double-drift diodes. As a result of this work, state-of-the-art powers have been obtained in X band (6.8-W maximum). However, the efficiencies are only slightly greater than those obtained with single-drift diodes (12 versus 10 percent). The efficiencies are correlated as a function of avalanche-to-drift-voltage ratio Va/Vd. This correlation is in agreement with the semiquantitative large signal theory of Scharfetter and Gummel. The inability to get higher efficiencies is clearly shown to depend upon the limited range of implanted impurities obtained with 300-kV implantation equipment. A design window, centered around Va/Vd∼ 1.1 for silicon is presented and accounts for the smaller efficiencies. This window shows the tolerances that are required for the doping and its distribution to obtain optimum efficiency. It is predicted that efficiencies of 21 percent can be obtained for a properly made silicon double-drift Read-like diode, but even this value would still be less than the predicted maximum efficiency for a single-drift n-GaAs Read-like diode (38 percent). The higher output powers were obtained with ∼ 12 percent efficient double-drift diodes, with junction areas 4 times larger than utilized in single-drift diodes. This maintenance of relatively high efficiency with large areas is discussed in terms of an application of Gewartowski's circuit-diode theory to double-drift diodes."
"A key factor in designing position-sensitive detectors operating through lateral photoeffects in semiconductors concerns the nature of the pulse response over the entire active area of the device. It is demonstrated that the limiting behavior can be approximated by means of a fundamental RC-filter time constant τctogether with position-dependent initial delay times of up to 0.6τc. A comparison with recorded pulse-response traces suggests that the time constant τcof two-dimensional position-sensitive photodetectors takes on values of RsCAd2/π2, where Rsis the backlayer sheet resistance, CAthe junction capacitance per unit area, and d the electrode separation. Illustrations of the dependence of pulse shape on spot position for representative ion-implanted silicon units are shown to substantiate the analysis in the context of evaluating position-sensitive photodetectors for applications involving very short laser pulses."
"Silicon diodes built in epitaxial layers of varying parameters were found to exhibit two distinct modes of light-emission dependence on avalanching current prior to secondary breakdown. The modes depend on whether the depletion layer extends to the substrate interface prior to avalanche or not. Current distribution is inferred from the light curve and a possible mechanism leading to the secondary breakdown is suggested."
"A simple and elementary calculation is carried out which shows that microscopic temperature fluctuations produced by the shot-noise nature of the p-n junction diode current can cause 1/f-flicker noise."
"It has been found that the temperature TAat which Cs and O are applied to (In,Ga)As negative electron affinity photocathodes has a strong influence on the surface escape probability B. Over the temperature range investigated, 25-100°C, B changes by a factor of approximately 30."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Small signal and noise characteristics for GaAs field-effect transistors are derived with the saturated drift velocity of the carriers underneath the gate taken into account. The noise contributed by the saturated carriers is nonnegligible and in most cases, exceeds the noise generated by the unsaturated region. Parasitic elements contribute importantly by preventing the full cancellation of the correlated noise of the intrinsic transistor and by adding their own Johnson noise. The theory predicts the experimentally observed trend of noise figure dependence on drain current and on source-to-drain voltage. The present theory doesnot take into account the effects of a possible short negative resistance region underneath the gate."
"The problem of electronic tuning of microwave osciilator structures characterized by high energy storage and hence low noise is considered. The evolution of a wide-band varactor tuned J-band oscillator is described, and analytical criteria are presented which determine the position of the varactor diode and the theoretical maximum tuning range available including Varactor loss. Experimental results confirm the validity of the circuit model used for the proposed oscillator structures."
"The noise performance of the new \"Norton\" single-ended operational amplifier is described in detail. The important noise sources are introduced theoretically, and it is shown that the absolute noise levels can be accurately predicted and simply modeled under any bias conditions. The results are verified experimentally, and an example of a bandpass active filter is used to illustrate the accuracy of the model."
"The negative resistance induced by space-charge effects in bulk semiconductor devices subjected to avalanche multiplication has been studied to clarify the physics of this phenomenon and the validity of the assumptions made by other authors. On the basis of the numerical results, an analytical model is proposed, using the regional approximation to evaluate the field along the device and the J-V characteristic. Both the numerical and the analytical results show the role played by the injection of electrons from the cathode and the velocity saturation for the onset of negative resistance, as well as the role of hole injection from the multiplication region near the anode into the bulk for the subsequent voltage lowering. Experimental results are in good agreement with the analytical model in a wide range of device parameters."
"A two-dimensional solution of the continuity equation in the base of the lateral p-n-p transistor, including interactions with the substrate and subdiffused layer, is presented for dc excitation. This method is extended to the case of steady-state sinusoidal excitation. Computed and measured results are presented for the frequency dependence of the Short-circuit small-signal current transfer ratios, and comparison of these shows reasonable agreement over the full range of measurements. An approximate equivalent circuit derived from a single-pole fit to the frequency response of short-circuit admittance parameters is inferred to be valid Up to a few megahertz for the device considered."
"A new gas discharge device for electrostatic printing is described, which is flat in shape, simple in structure, and has inherent scanning capability. As a glow discharge is sequentially transferred in the device, voltage pulses are generated from the discharge spaces and fed to recording styluses one after another. These voltage pulses are applied to the dielectric coating of the electrostatic recording paper and form latent electrostatic images on the dielectric coating in response to recording signal voltages applied simultaneously to the back side of the paper. A facsimile receiver employing the device has satisfactorily recorded facsimile signals at a rate of 9000 picture elements per second."
"The design of an electron beam artwork camera that records integrated-circuit patterns directly from computer circuit, design programs is discussed. The system produces artwork patterns covering a 1- by 1-in area with line edge definition of 0.5 µm and with capability for producing patterns at 3, 5, or 10 times scale. The electron beam pattern-recording is achieved through the use of a novel electron optical element-the electron fly's eye lens-an array of small electron lenses, each with its own deflection system. The complete pattern is recorded by electronic control of the electron beam, hence no mechanical motion. The patterns are recorded faster than possible with mechanically stepped photo-optical artwork systems. Pattern-to-pattern registration is insured by the use of the fly's eye lens and computer control to the deflection voltages."
"Modified structure of a conventional diffused planar unijunction transistor (UJT) having a feasible voltage-controlled differential negative resistance (DNR) characteristic is developed using high-resistivity n-type silicon. The origin of a voltage-controlled DNR is qualitatively explained. A quantitative analysis is given and a comparison with experimental results is made."
"It is shown that a current introduced directly into the N layer of an SNS Josephson junction whose width is much greater than ξNenters the two superconductors dividing in the ratio of the resistances encountered. The device acts as a two-terminal device with an auxiliary current divider."
"The threshold voltage of a MOSFET at 4.2 K is affected by the particular bias condition present while the device is being cooled. Measurements disagree with a simple model based upon stored bulk-charge."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A technique for computing the shape of photosensors in a linear array is described. The method illustrated computes the dimensions of the detectors that produce the highest signal-to-noise performance at the high spatial frequency limit of the array. These detectors turn out to be wider than the pitch of the array, necessitating a bilinear array configuration. The special case of equal signal-to-noise ratio parallel and perpendicular to the array is derived. An illustration is shown."
"The IC-VCElocus predicted by a one-dimensional model of thermal instability is compared with the IC-VCElocus predicted by a numerical model which accounts for nonuniform heat generation over the transistor area and also two-dimensional heat flow within the heat sink. Both models include the effects of distributed emitter and base ballast resistance, as well as the magnitude and temperature dependence of current gain. An important result obtained from this comparison is that the I-V loci predicted by the two models are very nearly the same, even though the temperature and power density profiles over the transistor die are distinctly different. It is the I-V locus which is of most practical interest, since it is one portion of the boundary of the forward safe operating area (SOA). The similarity of the I-V loci should allow one to use the simple one-dimensional model to predict a particular SOA, even though the assumptions under which the model was originally derived are not valid at the onset of thermal instability. Confirmation of this approach has been obtained by demonstrating good agreement between the measured safe operating area and that predicted by the one-dimensional model for both single- and double-diffused transistors. The predicted improvement due to the addition of discrete emitter resistors has also been verified by SOA measurements on actual devices. The device parameters which are important in determining SOA are the effective emitter and base resistances, the magnitude and temperature dependence of current gain, and the effective thermal resistance between the active region of the transistor and its heat sink. The quantitative dependence of SOA due to each of these parameters is described."
"A novel quasi-planar and highly reliable varactor configuration has been developed to batch fabricate fully passivated GaAs Schottky varactors with near ideal characteristics and state of the art performance. Typically, they exhibit at zero bias a junction capacitance of 0.12 pF and a cutoff frequency in excess of 700 GHz when measured at 70 GHz. As frequency doublers (∼ 35 to 70 GHz) and triplers (35 to 105 GHz), efficiencies greater than 40 and 25 percent, respectively, have been achieved. In a parametric amplifier pumped at 105 GHz and operated in the 55- to 65-GHz signal frequency band, a gain of 14 dB, a 1-dB bandwidth of 670 MHz, and a single sideband noise factor of 5.9 dB were achieved."
"An adjustable threshold MOS (Atmos) transistor is described that can be used as an electrically reprogrammable read-only memory by changing the charge content of a floating polysilicon gate. This floating gate is charged negatively (write) by means of a nonavalanche mechanism and charged positively (erase) by the avalanche breakdown of source or drain junction and subsequent hole injection into the oxide. The write time is between 10 and 100 ms, the erase time on the order of 1 s. The charge retention of the floating gate is about 90 percent after storage for 1000 h at 125°C."
"Silicon has been selectively oxidized in high-pressure steam up to 90 arm at 700°C using Si3N4as an oxidation mask. The rate of oxide growth on"
"Several types of transmission-mode negative electron affinity (NEA) photocathodes were investigated. The first group consisted of GaAs cathodes of various thicknesses grown on a composite structure composed of a GaP substrate and a Ga(As,P) buffer layer. These cathodes were of two types, one having an abrupt Ga(As,P)/GaAs interface and the other having a compositionally graded interface. The latter type exhibited the highest transmission-mode quantum efficiency, 0.11 electron per incident photon at 0.85 μm. It is assumed that the electron diffusion length L in the GaAs layer is limited by misfit dislocations arising from the lattice mismatch between the GaAs and the Ga(As,P) buffer layer. L increased with cathode layer thickness more rapidly for the graded structure, suggesting that misfit dislocation propagation into the GaAs layer is less when the dislocations are generated gradually (graded structure) than when they are introduced abruptly (ungraded structure). The second group of samples consisted of (In, Ga)As alloy cathodes of various compositions grown on both GaAs and GaP substrates with lattice-mismatch-reducing buffer layers of (In, Ga)As, (In, Ga)P, and Ga(As,P). It was found that photosensitivity was improved significantly by reducing the amount of lattice mismatch between the (In, Ga)As cathode layer and the substrate or buffer layer. Using an (In, Ga)As cathode with an (In,Ga)P buffer layer grown on a GaP substrate, transmission quantum efficiencies in excess of 0.01 were obtained over the relatively broad wavelength range of 0.7 to 1.04 µm."
"The accepted touchstone for the onset of heavy inversion in metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) devices is the condition that the minority carrier density at the surface equals the bulk impurity concentration. It is not always clear how to use that definition in practical problems. In this letter we propose a new definition, and we demonstrate that it leads to the same physical conditions for the onset of heavy inversion as does the heretofore conventional criterion."
"A nondestructive technique has been developed that enables both the electric fields and temperature distributions at the surface of an operating integrated circuit to be viewed with conventional optical microscopes. Packaged chips or unscribed wafers are coated with a nematic liquid-crystal layer and operated in their normal fashion. Practical preparation and observation procedures have been developed."
"The paper concern the design of GaAs transferred electron amplifying diodes with a cathode doping notch. Simple analytical expressions for small signal impedance and noise factor are expressed in terms of the growth factor and transit phase angle for a constant electric field notch device. These are compared to experimental results, measured on such a device, and the agreement is remarkably good considering the simple model. A minimum measured noise figure of 10.5 dB was obtained. The gain saturation curves are given and briefly discussed. Although at higher frequencies, a small gain increase is encountered with increasing drive a properly controlled notch device does not show a marked gain jump at higher levels as is frequently encountered with Gunn amplifiers."
"The quenched-domain mode computer simulation for transferred-electron (TE) devices developed by Khandelwal and Curtice has been run for a variety of conditions and the resulting device admittance as a function of bias and RF voltages has been found to be satisfactorily approximated by closed-form expressions. These functional approximations are described and have been used to generate smooth data suitable for calculation of oscillator noise properties as outlined by Sweet. These functional forms could also be useful for other studies of TE device properties such as tuning and amplitude and frequency modulation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
 "In order to decrease lag and after-images in blocking-contact photoconductive camera tubes, sufficient electron mobility is required as well as hole mobility, even if a p-type photoconductor is used. In this connection, a new photoconductive target of selenium doped with arsenic and tellurium has been developed. Arsenic doping is used to prevent selenium crystallization. Tellurium doping is used near the signal electrode to increase red sensitivity. Along with the hole blocking contact at the signal electrode, a blocking structure is formed on the beam-scanned surface of the target to prevent injection of the beam electrons. The SATICON tube, employing this target, demonstrates the following characteristics. The sensitivity is 300-450 µA/1m, the gamma is nearly unity, and the spectral response covers the entire visible region. A 2/3-in tube shows a modulation transfer curve as high as 30 percent at 400 TV lines, Its lag is 3 percent at a signal current of 200 nA. Applications to TV broadcasting are expected."
"The phenomenon of hFEdegradation due to an excessive reverse collector bias voltage has been investigated. The correlation between this hFEdegradation phenomenon and the anomalously high collector leakage currents has been established. A model based on channels arising from diffusion induced pipes and spikes is presented. The model successfully explains these phenomena as observed in shallow-diffused microwave transistors."
"The response of temperature to dc and steady-state ac power inputs in multiple-layer rectangular structures has been derived by solving analytically the problem of heat flow in three dimensions. Attention is focused on electrothermal integrated circuit (IC) substrates consisting of a semiconductor, a thermal conductor, and a thermal insulator. The analysis applies as well to single-layer systems, such as conventional IC substrates, for which the transient response of temperature has also been found."
"The conditions for the production of stationary anode Gunn-effect domains have been clarified by both experimental and computational results. The stationary domains have been observed in both sandwich and planar device structures and it is proposed that this effect is due to the balancing of drift and diffusion currents at the doping gradient of the anode contact."
"Frequency responses of Ga1-xAlxAs light-emitting diodes with various Al composition are measured. When the emission peaks become shorter than 7000 Å, the cutoff frequencies decrease abruptly from 15 MHz to 5 MHz. A conclusion is that the frequency response is determined mainly by the lifetime of injected electrons which changes along with the Al composition because of the distribution of electrons between the Γ and X valleys."
"Measured and calculated current gains are presented for silicon, gallium-arsenide, and gallium-arsenide-phosphide electron-beam-semiconductor Schottky-barrier diodes. Silicon and gallium-arsenide-phosphide (GaAs0.7P0.3) diodes, having comparable critical voltages, provided current gains of 1400 and 960, respectively, at the beam voltage of 9 kV. A gallium-arsenide diode had a gain of 2100 at 12.7 kV. It is shown that Schottky-barrier diodes provide a good diagnostic tool for measurement of energy per electron-hole pair in semiconductors. The average pair energies for silicon, gallium arsenide, and gallium arsenide phosphide, determined by use of these diodes, were 3.6, 4.6, and 5.2 eV, respectively. Expressions for static and time-dependent current gains are derived for abrupt p-n-junction EBS diodes based on measured and simplified (constant) lineal densities of secondary-electron generation. It is shown that the current gain of p-n junctions is generally lower than that of Schottky-barrier diodes and decreases with increasing density of the semiconductor. For shallow (<0.2 µmr) silicon junctions, the calculated current gain is only slightly smalle. (<8 percent) than that of comparable Schottky-barrier diodes Measurements performed on a relatively deep (0.8 µm) silicon p-n junction, which provided a current gain of 2500 at the beam voltage of 13.6 kV, are in good agreement with the theory. The gain of this junction was typically 40 percent lower than that of a comparable Schottky-barrier diode. This difference was significantly greater for gallium arsenide as a result of its higher density. Approximate expressions and calculations are presented for estimating frequency limitations of p-n-junction EBS targets."
"The effects of bulk traps on the transfer effciency and transfer noise in bulk channel charge-coupled devices (BCCD's) are calculated for different charge packet sizes and operating frequencies. These predictions are compared with experimental results and the distribution and density of bulk states in actual devices are thereby measured. The measured low transfer inefficiency of 10-4per transfer with no intentionally introduced background charge and low transfer noise are shown to be due to a low bulk state density of 2 × 1011/cm3. A detailed comparison of estimated noise in both surface and bulk channel versions of an image sensor and an analog delay line show that BCCD's are very attractive for low-light level imaging but not as attractive for analog signal processing."
"Charge-coupled area image sensors with 220 by 256 cells have been built using a three-phase overlapping electrode structure. Each of the three sets of electrodes is formed in a separate level of polysilicon which are isolated from each other by a thermally grown oxide, This approach relaxes the demands on mask making and photolithography that would otherwise be necessary and reduces the incidents of fatal shorts that render devices inoperable. The overlapping electrode structure results in stable performance and good transfer efficiency. The semitransparent polysilicon electrodes make the device usable with circuit side illumination although the spectral response is not very uniform. Average quantum efficiency in the visible part of the spectrum is 0.25. Measured resolution limits are 110 line pairs horizontally and 100 pairs vertically in accordance with present day PICTUREPHONE® specifications."
"The operation of a JFET as an optical detector in the charge storage mode is described and it is shown that due to the nondestructive readout, this device is particularly useful when high charge gains are required. On silicon, for example, it is calculated that small device structures should give charge gains > 106. A method of resetting devices using the punchthrough effect is shown to reduce gain variations across an array and this principle is extended to a double punchthrough structure with a buried gate which can be read selectively. Measurements on lateral and longitudinal JFET structures verify these features and it is shown that they may be operated as two-terminal devices, a large voltage pulse being applied to the drain to reset and a small voltage to read."
"The effect of the recently reported unequal ionization rates in GaAs on small signal IMPATT device admittance has been calculated and is compared with equal ionization rate results at room temperature. The ionization rate effect on the static breakdown voltage has also been obtained."
"The avalanche breakdown voltage of an abrupt double-sided junction is a function only of Neff(the doping obtained from capacitance-voltage analysis) in a material in which the ionization rates for electrons and holes are equal or maintain a constant ratio. This doping parameter, together with the published breakdown voltage data for single-sided junctions, immediately gives the breakdown voltage of the more complex structure."
"The huge range of the source-to-drain resistance of FET's may be due to the existence of backbiased Schottky diodes which appear at the source and drain electrodes when the gate voltage has completely depleted the channel region. Charged particle detectors might be realized from this mechanism if the value of Rds(max) can be raised from 1013to 1017Ω."
"An n-channel depletion-type Si UHF MOS power FET has been developed which exhibits 16.4-W output power, 6.1-dB power gain, and 35-percent drain efficiency at 700 MHz. The island-like n+source, interdigitated 5-µm-long and 20-mm-wide gate, and n+drain were fabricated in p on p+epitaxial wafer."
"Currently a number of pulse and continuous-wave (CW) electron-bombarded-semiconductor (EBS) power devices are undergoing extended life test. No failures have been recorded in over 70 000 test hours on eight CW devices, and one failure occurred on a pulsed device."
                                            "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Measurements of small signal capacitance as a function of applied bias voltage are widely used for the determination of information about metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) capacitors. The information that can be derived from the measurements includes interface-state density and flat-band charge density at the insulator-semiconductor (IS) interface, semiconductor doping, and charge stability under bias-temperature stress. A limitation on the use of this measurement method which has until now prevented its even more general application is the requirement that in order to determine Cs, the semiconductor space-charge capacitance, with reasonable accuracy the ratio of Csto CI, the insulating layer capacitance, must be ∼ 10. In the present work it is shown that a modification of the usual method can significantly relax this restriction and allow the accurate determination of Cswhen the ratio Cs/Cris as large as 100 or more, In fact, the inherent limit is no longer directly dependent on this ratio but on the noise level in the capacitance measurement. In some cases Cs/CI≥ 1 due to a thick insulating layer, A very large bias voltage is then required to span the capacitance range of interest; commercially available capacitance meters which typically have applied bias capabilities of ±600 V or less may be inadequate. A simple circuit modification has been employed to allow much larger bias voltages (up to ± 7 kV in the present Work) to be applied to the sample without alteration of or damage to the capacitance meter."
"A new electrode structure for CCD's is described. This structure is three-phase with three levels of metal and considerably relaxes the demands on the photolithography. It is predicted and shown that this structure leads to devices with a high performance, a high packing density, and a high yield over very large areas. Devices with 256 and 64 elements, primarily intended for analog delay applications, have been fabricated and measured. Transfer inefficiencies of 5 × 10-5with only 5-percent background charge and a transfer noise corresponding to an interface state density in the low 109cm-2eV-1have been measured in a surface channel device. The devices may be satisfactorily operated at pulse voltages of a few volts. In bulk channel devices, transfer ineffciencies of 2.5 × 10-5have been observed, and bulk state densities of 2 × 1011cm-3have been derived."
"Flat-band shift measurements were made on p-type MOS devices irradiated with electrons at various gate-bias voltages. A structured reproducible curve of flat-band shift versus gate bias was obtained which could not be readily accounted for with existing models. Experimental data were taken over a wide range of negative and positive gate-bias voltages (consistent with electrical breakdown limits) in order to identify fundamental mechanisms as a basis for formulating a more general model of the entire device. A model is presented based on the known work functions and electron affinities for Al-SiO2-Si devices. It assumes that traps in the Oxide are occupied according to Fermi-Dirac statistics, subject to constraints determined by the interface parameters. A linearized quasi-Fermi level is assumed in the oxide, and the resulting distribution of charged traps is used with Poisson's equation to obtain a self-consistent energy-band structure throughout the entire device."
"The sensitivity of double-diffused metal-oxide-semiconductor (D-MOS) transistor threshold voltage to fabrication process variations has been studied. Computed impurity profiles are used to study the process dependencies. For the double diffused process, the channel predeposition is shown to be the most critical step in threshold voltage control for long channel devices. Experimental results confirm this relationship. Process considerations appropriate for the fabrication of short channel D-MOS devices are also presented. Computed variations of threshold voltage with expected process tolerances for the channel predeposition are consistent with experimental results. Computer results show that for D-MOS deviceswith source junction depths of about 1 µm and channel lengths greater than 2 µm, threshold voltage can be controlled to ±20 percent using thermal diffusion and ±5 percent using ion implanted predeposition. Greater variation in threshold voltage is found for shorter channel lengths."
"The recently developed large-area field-emission photocathode is described. It consists of a finely spaced array of point emitters fabricated by etching of p-type silicon or other semiconductor. Uniform emission over areas of 6-7 cm2have been obtained. For Si, the spectral response extends from 0.4 to 1.1 µm. Quantum yields of 25 percent at 0.86 µm have been measured, which is about five times the value reported for the extended S-20 photocathode and comparable to the best III-V photoemitters. Calculations indicate that quantum yields of up to 40 percent at 0.86 µm and 28 percent at 0.9 µm are attainable with the present photocathode structures. For low dark current densities, photocathode cooling to temperatures approaching 77 K must be employed at present. The dark current is shown to be dominated by surface-generated electrons in the space-chargeregion of the emitters. Effects of phosphorus gettering and annealing treatments on dark current are discussed, and the spatial frequency response of the device is determined. The results of a computer study show that the field intensification factor of p-semiconductor field emitters behaves quite differently from that of metallic emitters."
"Low-level currents in ion-implanted MOSFET are of special importance in the design of low-voltage MOSFET circuits. In this paper, low-level currents in MOSFET with single and double layer implanted impurities are discussed. A single boron layer in n-channel MOSFET causes positive threshold shift and less steep log nSF(surface electron density)-VG(gate voltage) curves compared with unimplanted MOSFET. Single phosphorus implantation gives rise to negative-threshold shift, but residual current occurs. By compensating for the distribution tail of the main impurity by the opposite type impurity, the log nSF-VGcurves shift in an almost parallel manner. Double-layer implantation, which consists of a phosphorus layer just below the surface of silicon and an equal dose of boron layer inside the silicon substrate, causes less steep log nSF-VGcurves with negligible threshold shift."
"An alternate geometry for a resistive layer GaAs epi-layer amplifier is argued to have desirable dc electric-field profiles while retaining the coupling and gain control advantages of the thin-film amplification scheme, Epilayer requirements point to the possibility of adapting LED technology to grow the material for such a device."
"The effects of ionization rates of electrons and holes on the properties of silicon IMPATT devices are presented. Both p-type and n-type silicon diodes are considered. Small- and large-signal results are given for typical X-band devices."
"A study of the effect of the doping profile on the properties of IMPATT devices has been carried out and the results of a small-signal analysis for different ram-wave Si IMPATT-diode structures are presented. Properties of single-drift abrupt-junction diodes of both Si complementary structures with different punch-through factors (PTF) are described and compared to those of symmetrical and asymmetrical double-drift diode structures. Since the initiation of the TRAPATT mode may be related to the IMPATT performance, these results should also be useful in assessing the effects of the doping profile on TRAPATT initiation."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The use of an impurity doped silicon MOSFET as an infrared detector (IRFET) has recently been proposed. (1) This report will give a description of the operation of this new type of infrared detector and provide experimental verification of the design. The IRFET is an integrating static read only memory element whose conductance is modulated by infrared radiation. Operation has been observed and characterized using the gold acceptor level and gold donor level in the near infrared wavelength range from 1.0 to 3.0 microns. It will be shown from pulsed capacitance measurements on MOS capacitors and from measurement of the IRFET response that the characteristics of the gold impurity center in the surface space charge region correspond to the results observed previously for the center in bulk silicon. Operation of the IRFET can then be described on the basis of a simple model where the change in charge state of the impurity center in the surface space charge region due to photoionization modulates the threshold voltage of the MOSFET and thus conductance of the device. The IRFET has a very high gain and responsivities of 10 milliwatts/microjoule are easily achieved. Standard silicon MOSFET technology is employed and it should be possible to use other impurity centers to extend the response out to a wavelength of 14 microns. Applications in large scale integrated infrared imaging and target tracking arrays are anticipated."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A monolithic surface wave convolver has been used to image one-dimensional optical patterns, store them for several days, and read them out nondestructively. The configuration consists of a silicon substrate with the top surface covered by a l000A thermal oxide and a one micron sputtered piezoelectric zinc oxide film. The zinc oxide allows the excitation of surface waves on non-piezoelectric silicon using interdigi tal transducers, and creates surface wave electric fields which couple to carriers in the silicon. Changes in the carrier concentration at the silicon surface (caused for example by illumination) dramatically affect the surface wave convolution, which can thus be used to detect an optical pattern. A light pattern is stored by projecting it onto a semitransparent top convolver electrode that has an applied negative de bias. Slow states associated with the zinc oxide, probably at the zinc oxide - silicon dioxide interface, are charged in the regions exposed to the light. This charge pattern, as observed using surface wave convolution, persists for as long as five days after the light is removed. The effect has potential application for memory or improved convolution and correlation devices."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This report describes new electrode structures of two-phase and uniphase charge coupled devices using the offset mask technique. Completely sealed electrode structures with polysilicon electrodes and self-aligned gates have been fabricated. Devices of different cell lengths and channel widths were made on 100 p-type substrates. Structures with tungsten and polysilicon electrodes and with implanted barriers and oxide steps for directionality have been compared. Transfer inefficiency has been measured in the range between 10 KHz and 10 MHZ for different channel widths and electrode lengths. Transfer inefficiency of l0-4 up to 10 MHz clock frequency were observed. The results of detailed measurements and evaluation of the performance of these devices for their use in large high density memories will be presented. In view of these experimental results a comparison with other potential electrode structures will be presented to show that the offset-mask electrode structure presented in this paper is very attractive for charge coupled memories."
"The following topics are dealt with: FET; MOSFET; CCD; liquid crystal devices; GaAs devices; photodiodes; electron projection and alignment; IGFET; vidicons; CW dye lasers; TWT; device scaling; integrated logic units."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This report will detail the design and describe the performance characteristics of a 10 kllf coupled-cavity traveling wave tube (TWT) with a total system efficiency greater than 50% (including focusing and cooling power requirements) over the 4.4 to 5.0 GHz military troposcatter frequency band. The TWT utilizes an integral \"wrapped on\" solenoid for superior beam control and a closed-cycle, gravity-fed vapor phase nucleate boiling cooling system for heat transfer and high cooling efficiency. High interaction efficiency is obtained from the tube by use of a \"voltage jump\" electron beam velocity resynchronization technique in conjunction with two-stage collector depression. The voltage jump principle is a technique whereby the electron beam is reaccelerated (by application of a positive voltage to a section of the TWT slow wave circuit) back into synchronism with the phase velocity of the RF wave, thereby prolor~ing the distance over which favorable large signal interaction can occur. The results presented demonstrate that the voltage jump technique can generate interaction efficiencies greater than 70%, an accomplishment never before even closely approached by o-type traveling wave tubes, with the concommitant result that total system efficiencies greater than 50% across the entire 13% troposcatter fractional bandwidth can be realized."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings of the 1974 Ultrasonics Symposium."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
                                                                                                                                                                             "The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
                                                          "Presents an index of the authors whose papers are published in the conference."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
    "High resolution measurements of the electric field distribution in photoconduction CdS samples is reported under two specific cases of drift field variations. In the first case, by using short bias voltage pulses, the high electric field domain was found to develop, at first, into a saturated moving domain; then, for a decrease of the bias voltage pulse, the domain collapsed rapidly from a crest to a dip shape, through the formation of a small dip (frontaldip) in the front part of the domain. In the second case, where the drift field was larger in the upstream half than in the down stream half of the sample, the domain has nucleated in the upstream-half of the sample. The domain has also formed a frontal-dip for the time decrease of the drift field when it has moved into the low field half of the sample. It was found that the appearance of the frontal-dip corresponds to the condition that the drift field, outside of the domain, has dropped below the value of the sonic drift field. Thus the latter condition does not correspond to the time of voltage-current crossover as it was suggested by other authors. We have also found that the drift field, outside of a saturated moving domain, is indeed larger than the sonic drift field as it was suggested by other authors on the basis of theoretical studies. Two methods are presented here for the calculation of the value of the sonic drift field."
     "Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
         "Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
         "Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
               "Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The microwave theory of phased-array antennas is reviewed, emphasizing large planar arrays suitable for phased-array radar. The review looks in detail at the three major parts of the antenna, namely, the element array, the phase shifters, and the feed system. The element array is studied by first modeling it as being infinite in extent and the concept of the per element absorption cross section and gain versus angle is developed. The technique of modal analysis using plane waves is explained and used to calculate the aforementioned quantities for waveguide and dipole elements. The review proceeds first through an analysis which applies to small elements, using a single element mode, and then to a more accurate solution containing the first higher mode in addition. The author has added new research to the review which explains the blindness effect for waveguide arrays. A necessary and sufficient condition for array blindness has been derived which removes a major uncertainty about the blindness effect. A result is that a blindness angle will always occur in E and H plane scanning of rectangular waveguide elements for any waveguide size, provided the array lattice is such as to permit a grating-lobe singularity by the simple one-element-mode theory. Elements large than some critical size are not required to produce blindness but the large size has the effect of producing greater shift of the blindness angle towards broadside from the grating lobe angle. The singularity in element admittance right at the grating lobe angle, which is a well-known milestone in the analysis of elements which have been modeled to support only one mode, is in reality a fiction. When higher modes are added to the solution, as is necessary for any physical element, the grating-lobe singularity is found to disappear. Thus for any real physical element, there is no grating lobe blindness, but the blindness angle is shifted inside of this angle by an amount which depends upon the element size. A review of element design calculations using many higher element modes is presented, and element configurations are shown which produce a good impedance match over a wide scan angle as well as a wide-frequency band. The application of the aforementioned results obtained from the infinite-array model to a practical, finite array are discussed. The theory of the most useful phase-shifter types for phased arrays is discussed, including those using both ferrite and semiconductor diodes. The ferrite toroid in a waveguide is a very effective design and the results of an optimization analysis for this configuration are presented. Choices of ferrite material parameters for low loss at both small and large signal levels are discussed. A method of reducing the temperature sensitivity of phase shift by means of the driver circuit is also reviewed. Semiconductor diode phase shifters have a greatly increased potential due to an improvement in diode reliability that has produced an expected mean life of 109h. The theory of phase-shifter operation using diodes in a balanced hybrid circuit is discussed and relations are given for bandwidth, loss, and power capability. The high-power limitation of the phase shifters is due to a nonlinear loss effect in the reverse biased state and is caused by the large RF voltages. The loss can be reduced by circuit techniques and by employing the new diodes of improved design, which are discussed. Feed systems for phased arrays are synthesized from a number of basic techniques according to the antenna applications. A few of the important techniques are reviewed here. Feed systems are required to produce an optimum aperture distribution for two types of patterns simultaneously, the sum pattern (Taylor distribution) and the difference pattern (Bayliss distribution). For the constrained feed, which uses transmission line throughout, two alternatives are presented for accomplishing the aforesaid. It is shown that the feed network can prevent reflections from the element array, which are always present to some degree, from adding an error component to the desired aperture distribution by employing 4-port power dividers which are provided with a reflection absorbing termination. An approximate method of wide-band beam steering is discussed in which a small number of time delay devices are used to feed subarrays of elements steered by conventional phase shifters. The subarray feeding technique is also employed in another application with the Butler beam forming matrix to form simultaneous multiple beams in an approximate manner that reduces the size of the beam forming matrix required. The space feed is an alternative to the constrained feed and distributes energy to the elements by free-space propagation. This method possesses great flexibility and may approach the capability of the constrained feed in secondary aperture performance by using a large number of feed elements. A design method of accounting for the near-field diffraction produced by the large feed is given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In those radio communications applications where area coverage is not desired, a series of repeaters, each operating at low power, can be used to extend the radio over long distances. Microwave relay systems operate on this principle with each node representing a point of potential local distribution. Where it is desirable to have the nodes closely spaced, such as along a highway, it becomes desirable to utilize a single frequency for all transmissions in one direction in the interest of conserving spectrum. This paper covers such a system operating in the 935-MHz band. The system described provides both the \"backbone\" communications system which employs single-frequency repeaters and the \"roadside\" communications from the repeater node points to users in their vehicles. The functioning of the repeaters is described, and the relationship between signal levels, isolation, external noise levels, and thresholds is presented. Both analog and digital modulations are employed, and it is shown how each repeater is remotely switched between \"backbone\" and \"roadside\" communications modes. Extensions from current single-channel to multiple-channel operation is described in terms of the application to a variety of highway-related uses. The results of propagation experiments both along the \"backbone\" and on the \"roadside\" are described and related to theoretical models. From these data, conclusions can be drawn about the relationship between repeater spacing, height, and power level, as well as their relationship to user antenna height, output power, and receiver sensitivity."
"With the advent of monolithic crystal filters and monolithic integrated circuits, single conversion VHF/UHF land-mobile receivers have attracted the attention and enthusiasm of receiver designers and users alike. Single-conversion receivers represent the standard of excellence in terms of performance and reliability. With monolithic technology, they can be cost competitive with conventional double-conversion receivers, especially in the design of high performance land-mobile receivers. This paper will discuss the important benefits and the design tradeoffs of single-conversion receivers with a specific emphasis on the impact of monolithic technology."
"A very simple, closed-form approximation to circular error probable (CEP) is determined analytically for the case when the underlying error distribution is elliptical. The accuracy of the approximation is quite good over a sizeable range of major-to-minor axis ratios. Accurate numerical CEP computations are shown, but for many applications only the approximation will be required. The inverse question of what percentage of elliptically distributed points lie within a circle of given radius is also considered."
"The following three major advantages were observed by adopting a magnetic phase shifter for gate control of a thyristor. 1) A single magnetic phase shifter can compare and amplify multiple signals in an insulated status. 2) At the same time, simplified current detection greatly reduces the number of parts required. 3) It is barely susceptible to the influences of noise. These facts imply that a magnetic phase shifter constitutes a highly reliable and low-cost control device. Especially, using this as a control unit for a chopper offers a substantial advantage with respect to the antinoise margin. By utilizing a balanced half-wave type magnetic phase shifter (capable of operating with a dc power source by combining with a switching transistor), we have developed a gate controller that is free from the influences of noise and allows control of current duties ranging from a minimum value to 100 percent maximum with a greatly simplified circuit."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The design of electronic fuel injection (EFI) controls for the automobile must take into account limitations imposed by the automotive environment and by mass production. This paper outlines the fundamentals of EFI controls and provides insight into the unique problems encountered in the design of a viable system. The impact of the electrical and physical automotive environment is analyzed, and the constraints arising from volume production and cost considerations are discussed."
"The usefulness of radar as an automotive obstacle detection system is currently being investigated. Possible applications of such a system presently are automatic braking and air bag actuation and eventually the totally automatic highway. One type of radar having possible potential for these short range applications is diplex Doppler radar. The microwave and electronic circuits basic to a diplex Doppler radar obstacle detection system are described in this paper. The system provides Analog outputs proportional to range, velocity, and time to impact relative to an obstacle, as well as indicating whether the velocity is opening or closing."
"A system for identifying moving objects such as vehicles, trucks, buses, containers, etc., in which a passive label having a number of dipoles in accordance with a code is attached to the object, is described. A synthetic aperture radar consisting of a Gunn diode mounted within a resonant cavity and connected to a horn is used to illuminate the label. The Gunn diode operates as a homodyne so that signals from the label are also detected by the diode as a number of overlapping chirp signals, which are sent to a computer for processing. The computer output is a pulse train with pulses corresponding to dipoles in the label. A number of tests have been made indicating that labels can be read regardless of range and vehicle speed. A number of horns may be strategically located in a city or along a highway, and these horns can be multiplexed into a common computer to provide an inexpensive all weather automatic vehicle identification system."
"The performance of five low-power HF radio sets was measured at 3.6 MHz under field conditions in Thailand. Variations in performance were noted for CW and voice transmissions as a function of type of set, type of antenna, time of day, and communication range (5-100 mi) in tropical forest (jungle), mountain, and delta terrain. Radio teletype (RTTY) tests over longer paths (out to 1320 km) were made using a jeep-mounted set. The results showed that relatively good communications can be achieved in the tropics on short and intermediate length paths with low-power sets--especially when the proper antenna is used and when the operating frequency is properly chosen."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Proper selection of the propulsion system to meet the requirements of an electric passenger vehicle is of prime importance. Choice may be made among alternating current, direct current, or combined systems. Each approach can be implemented by utilizing various control techniques and power elements. For instance, an ac system may use an adjustable voltage inverter (AVI) or a pulse-width-modulated inverter (PWMI) for the power processor, and an induction motor or a synchronous motor for the rotating element. Similar alternatives exist for a dc system. The choice of a suitable manner of implementation must be. based on information characterizing the various elements and tradeoffs matching them to the vehicle requirements. This paper describes various ac and dc techniques, characterizes AVI, PWM, and representative dc chopper power processors and examines their interface with a variety of motors such as series, shunt, induction, etc."
"Measurements of the amplitude probability distribution (APD) of the envelope and measurements of other parameters of automobile ignition noise were made at frequencies between 24 and 30 MHz. The measurements were conducted at a quiet site where several single stationary vehicles were operated at engine speeds corresponding to idle and cruise. Measurements were also made at two distances near a freeway, for light traffic (approximately 20 vehicles per min) and for heavy traffic (approximately 45 vehicles per min). The principal instrumentation consisted of several phase-stable receivers with coherent quadrature detectors whose outputs were digitized at a rate of 200 samples per quadrature component per second and recorded on magnetic tape for computer processing. About 10 min of data (about 120 000 samples) were obtained during each measurement. The computer plotted the APD on a Rayleigh scale in dB relative to thermal noise and calculated the mean noise power available at the antenna terminals (related by a constant to the noise factor Fa) and Vd--the ratio in dB of rms to average voltage. The average power of the ignition noise increases with engine r/min and Vdusually decreases. Near a freeway, most of the noise is contributed by a small number of very noisy vehicles. The APD's for various situations are strikingly similar; all show that most of the noise envelope samples in a measurement are Rayleigh distributed. A small percentage of the noise samples do not follow the Rayleigh distribution, but are of higher amplitude. This percentage is higher for an engine at cruise speed than at idle speed, and higher for heavy traffic than for light traffic."
"As a direct data interface between dispatcher and driver, a 4K minicomputer with a very efficient program helps resolve many thorny problems in large fleet dispatching. Data bursts of 300 mS at the beginning of each radio transmission reliably convey the identification and address information with little interference to voice transmissions. The concept of city-wide as opposed to zone coverage is feasible due to the even loading of dispatchers made possible by random access to any channel. Performance objectives of more rapid dispatching, improved load factor on vehicles, and better management are being met, with the result that an early expansion and the addition of other facilities is predicted."
"The design, analysis, and selected measurements of a new type of vehicle detector called a magnetic gradient vehicle detector (MGVD) that is under development by the Federal Highway Administration are described. The detector consists of a transducer buried in a transverse slot in the pavement surface. \"Lead in\" cables connect the transducer to roadside detector electronics. When a vehicle approaches the transducer, eddy currents are induced in the vehicle's undercarriage, front, and possibly side surfaces, and the resulting magnetic field is sensed by the transducer. The operating frequency of the detector is nominally 100 kHz."
"A method of obtaining a continuous reference signal for use in the synchronous longitudinal control of automated ground transport systems is presented and evaluated in preliminary full-scale tests. The results of the latter, which were obtained using a reference signal in conjunction with an instrumented vehicle at speeds from 0 to 46 ft/s over 1600 ft of roadway, are presented. Successful operation was achieved with both steady-state and time-varying velocity command signals. A significant finding, with respect to implementation of the method, was that the roadway environment introduces signal attenuation (2 dB/100 ft) that must be circumvented before practical long-distance operation can be achieved. However, with system refinement, the technique holds great promise for future implementation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Advances in the design, development, and fabrication of key microwave components along with those in electronics have resulted in growing optimism about the application of radar technology to solving the automotive highway collision problem. However, before an automotive radar system can be fully realized, a major effort will be required to define the environment in which the system must operate, and to obtain a fundamental understanding of the influence of these RF parameters. One such parameter which will have a considerable effect on the design of automobile radars is that due to the presence of natural and man-made surfaces within the beamwidth of the antenna. Generally, the presence of such a surface will result in incident RF energy being reflected off the surface in a forward direction and some portion being scattered in a backward direction. This paper presents the results of a program which was designed to measure this type of reflectivity characteristic for common road surfaces. Measured data are presented along with a theoretical study demonstrating the influence that this phenomenon can have on highway collision radar systems."
"A brief description of the zirconia exhaust gas sensor is given. The electrochemical principles of the sensor are reviewed. Starting from the Nernst equation, theoretical relations are derived which relate the galvanic potential of the sensor to the composition of the exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine. Theoretical curves of galvanic potential versus the inlet air-fuel ratio are shown and discussed. The utility of the zirconia exhaust gas sensor is defined in applications such as closed-loop engine control systems."
"The computerized frequency assignment program developed by the FCC Spectrum Management Task Force utilizes monitoring van [1] measured occupancy data and models for propagation, interference, and noise. The propagation model was constructed by the Technical Division of the FCC Office of the Chief Engineer from measured FM and television data [2] and National Bureau of Standards measurements in the UHF/VHF range [3]. The co-channel interference model uses commonly accepted signal ratios between desired and interfering signals. The adjacent channel interference model is based on performance characteristics furnished by the major land mobile (LM) equipment manufacturers. The receiver and transmitter intermodulation interference models and the noise model were taken from the Report of the Advisory Committee for the Land Mobile Services [4]. None of the models is considered immutable. All will be continuously updated."
"This paper reports some propagation and coverage prediction results using various models provided to the Federal Communications Commission, Spectrum Management Task Force."
"The Spectrum Management Task Force of the Federal Communications Commission was formed, in part, for the purpose of devising new methods of spectrum management. Initial efforts have been directed toward improved spectrum utilization in the Land Mobile Service (which includes a large number of different types of users on approximately 2000 channels, assigned on a noncontinuous basis, on three bands (25 to 50 MHz or \"low band,\" 150 to 174 MHz or \"high band,\" and 450 to 470 MHz or \"UHF band,\" with additional channels specifically provided by FCC action in the lower UHF television channels in certain metropolitan areas, and with additional frequency space to become available in the 900-MHz region, but with frequency congestion generally to be found in all large population centers, and apparent maldistribution of users Upon available channels). One technique which is being applied to the overall problem is the mobile spectrum monitoring van designed to measure occupancy, transmission, and other parameters of the land mobile channels."
"This paper begins with a discussion of multipath interference. The spatial description of the field impinging upon a mobile radio antenna is derived and the power spectrum and other properties of the signal envelope are considered. Next, large scale variations of the average signal are discussed. Measurements of observed attenuation on mobile paths over both smooth and irregular terrain are summarized. The paper concludes with a discussion of methods of predicting the area of coverage from a base station."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Radix—2 fast Fourier transform programs of the Gentleman-Sande type leave the transformed array in a scrambled order of frequencies. Unscrambling is accomplished by moving each element from its present location into a new location obtained by bit reversal. Bit reversal can be interpreted as an exchange of groups of bits symmetric with respect to a pivot. Two formulas are developed for simultaneous and sequential exchanging in place, with negligible auxiliary storage. Programs for one-step and sequential unscrambling were implemented. Binary unscrambling is useful to unscramble large arrays in peripheral storage. The one-step unscrambling program presented is more efficient than other programs available in the literature."
"The residue number system is an integer number system and is inconvenient to represent numbers with fractional parts. In the symmetric residue system, a new representation of floating-point numbers and arithmetic algorithms for its addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division are proposed. A floating-point number is expressed as an integer multiplied by a product of the moduli. The proposed system assumes existence of necessary conversion procedures before and after the computation."
"Of concern here are asynchronous modules, i.e., those whose activity is regulated by initiation and completion signals with no clocks being present. First a number of operating conditions are described that are deemed essential or useful in a system of asynchronous modules, while retaining an air of independence of particular hardware implementations as much as possible. Second, some results are presented concerning sets of modules that are universal with respect to these conditions. That is, from these sets any arbitrarily complex module may be constructed as a network. It is stipulated that such constructions be speed independent, i.e., independent of the delay time involved in any constituent modules. Furthermore it is required that the constructions be delay insensitive in the sense that an arbitrary number of delay elements may be inserted into or removed from connecting lines without effecting the external behavior of the network."
"It is shown that not all Boolean functions can be realized by a two-level EXCLUSIVE-OR majority network. However, if repeats at the first level are allowed, then it is shown that such a network is universal. A minimal weight vector with respect to this latter network is defined. By using the restricted-affine-group (RAG) equivalence of Boolean functions, it is shown that if two functions are in the same RAG class, then they are realized by the same minimal weight vector to within permutations and/or sign changes."
"Some new techniques for the synthesis of fault-tolerant two-level combinational networks are presented. Two classes of faults are defined, 1) critical faults and 2) subcritical faults. Critical fauls are the class of faults that cannot be tolerated by any two-level networks. Necessary conditions for synthesis of networks tolerating subcritical faults are developed. As a result it is established that the conditions required for tolerating faults in the logic elements and those required for tolerating faults in the primary inputs are significantly different. Several design techniques are presented and it is shown that if we restrict our class of faults, then certain normally assumed conditions on redundancy can be relaxed. A class of hazards is defined. It is shown that the synthesis of certain hazard-free realizations is equivalent to the fault-tolerant realization, and also an upper bound on the redundancy of the fault-tolerant realization is derived."
"Two algorithms are presented for the detection and location of single or multiple stuck faults in a fan-out free combinational circuit. The algorithms are based on a canonic representation of the indistinguishability classes of faults. The number of tests required in these algorithms are shown to be a linear function of the number of gates in the circuit."
"This paper considers the use of control logic to reduce the number of tests required by a logic network and to simplify test generation. The properties of EXCLUSIVE-OR (EOR) circuits as control elements are examined. Systematic procedures are presented for modifying any combinational or sequential network so that the resulting network requires only five tests. These tests can easily be generated using a set of predefined test patterns of length five. The design of diagnosable networks using a limited amount of control logic is also discussed."
"Optimal networks with thirty different types of restrictions are listed for the one-bit fuli adder. Optimality is derined as the minimization of the number of gates under different restrictions."
"An important measure concerning the use of statistical decision schemes is the error probability associated with the decision rule. Several methods giving bounds on the error probability are presently available, but, most often, the bounds are loose. Those methods generally make use of so-cailed distances between statistical distributions. In this paper a new distance is proposed which permits tighter bounds to be set on the error probability of the Bayesian decision rule and which is shown to be closely related to several certainty or separability measures. Among these are the nearest neighbor error rate and the average conditional quadratic entropy of Vajda. Moreover, our distance bears much resemblance to the information theoretic concept of equivocation. This relationship is discussed. Comparison is made between the bounds on the Bayes risk obtained with the Bhattacharyya coefficient, the equivocation, and the new measure which we have named the Bayesian distance."
"A simple procedure for the state minimization of an incompletely specified sequential machine whose number of internal states is not very large is presented. It introduces the concept of a compatibility graph from which the set of maximal compatibles of the machine can be very conveniently derived. Primary and secondary implication trees associated with each maximal compatible are then constructed. The minimal state machine covering the incompletely specified machine is then obtained from these implication trees."
"Several techniques for choosing state assignments which tend to minimize the combinational input and output circuitry of sequential machines have been developed. One of these techniques is a heuristic scoring approach which was originally developed assuming delays as memory elements [1]."
"Preparata, Metze, and Chien [1] gave necessary conditions for identification of all faulty units in a system S capable of automatic fault diagnosis. We show that these conditions are sufficient if in S no two units test each other. Necessary and sufficient conditions are also obtained for the general case when no such restriction is placed on S."
"In this correspondence we present a new algorithm for computing the correlation [mi][/mi]. For applications where the \"cost\" of a multiplication is greater than that of an addition, the new algorithm is always more computationally efficient than direct evaluation of the correlation, and it is generally more efficient than FFT methods for processing 128 or fewer data points, or for calculating only the first L values of Rk, for L < 10 log2 2N."
"A discrete cosine transform (DCT) is defined and an algorithm to compute it using the fast Fourier transform is developed. It is shown that the discrete cosine transform can be used in the area of digital processing for the purposes of pattern recognition and Wiener filtering. Its performance is compared with that of a class of orthogonal transforms and is found to compare closely to that of the Karhunen-Loève transform, which is known to be optimal. The performances of the Karhunen-Loève and discrete cosine transforms are also found to compare closely with respect to the rate-distortion criterion."
"An algorithm is presented to minimize linear sequential machines to reduced form."
"This correspondence describes an algorithm which finds the maximum compatibles (maximal complete subgraphs of a symmetric graph) sequentially and in lexicographic order. The algorithm is intended for use in digital computers, where it requires only a small program and very little memory space."
"Networks to realize all n-variable symmetric threshold functions and elementary symmetric functions are given. It is also shown that only 2n test inputs are necessary and sufficient to test any number of faults in these networks."
"A computational algorithm for solving a system of coupled matrix algebraic equations is presented in this paper. Such equations arise in optimal control problems of linear systems with jump parameters."
"It is known that, in general, the number of measurements in a pattern classification problem cannot be increased arbitrarily, when the class-conditional densities are not completely known and only a finite number of learning samples are available. Above a certain number of measurements, the performance starts deteriorating instead of improving steadily. It was earlier shown by one of the authors that an exception to this \"curse of finite sample size\" is constituted by the case of binary independent measurements if a Bayesian approach is taken and uniform a priori on the unknown parameters are assumed. In this paper, the following generalizations are considered: arbitrary quantization and the use of maximum likelihood estimates. Further, the existence of an optimal quantization complexity is demonstrated, and its relationship to both the dimensionality of the measurement vector and the sample size are discussed. It is shown that the optimum number of quantization levels decreases with increasing dimensionality for a fixed sample size, and increases with the sample size for fixed dimensionality."
"This correspondence describes an implementation scheme for the operations of addition and subtraction in the residue number systems. The method is based on the property that the set of residues modulo m form a finite group under addition and subtraction (modulo m). The proposed adder/subtractor structure is very systematic and, hence, suitable for MSI/LSI realization."
"This book is the proceedings of a symposium held at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center in March 1972. It contains the 14 papers presented plus an account of the panel discussion session. There was considerable attention given in the panel discussion to the field of the symposium. There was no agreement on a suitable name although \"computational complexity,\" \"computability,\" \"theory of algorithms,\" and \"concrete computational complexity\" were suggested. Neither was there good agreement on the content of the field, but the symposium (and this book) itself serve admirably to delineate the field. That is, the content of this field (whatever it is called) is that which the people in the fleld are doing."
"This slim volume is a forward-looking speculation of the promise of computers for making further contributions to mankind. It is aimed at alerting the informed layman to the vast potential that lies ahead of us in the intelligent development of computer systems."
"This book deals with a very important topic in computer engineering techniques, i.e., the use of digital computers as design tools in the development of digital systems. The use of design automation has been rapidly gaining wide acceptance, especially in recent years, in the computer industry due to the rapid pace of changing technologies and the desirability of shortening design and manufacturing intervals. While a number of significant results in design automation have been realized, most are either scattered in various literatures or are not readily obtainable. This book, written by eight authors, represents a body of information where several phases of design automation techniques, i.e., logic synthesis, logic simulation, testing, and physical implementation (partitioning, placement, and routing) are discussed."
"The stated purpose of Branko Soucěk's book Minicomputers in Data Processing and Simulation is to present the theory and application of digital simulation and measurement of data with emphasis on the use of minicomputers. The title is somewhat misleading, however, because the book is of interest to an even wider audience, including those interested in data acquisition, monitoring, industrial process and manufacturing control, and others. In particular, the section concerned with minicomputer hardware organization and interfacing collects information of great interest in a very readable fashion and fills a long existing void."
"The book Computer-Oriented Approaches to Pattern Recognition by W. S. Meisel was recently reviewed very favorably by Prof. Breeding [1]. The review emphasized the wide range of numerical algorithms contained in the book, thus making it a desirable reference for anyone working in mathematical pattern recognition."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The CORDIC iteration is applied to several Fourier transform algorithms. The number of operations is found as a function of transform method and radix representation. Using these representations, several hardware configurations are examined for cost, speed, and complexity tradeoffs. A new, especially attractive FFT computer architecture is presented as an example of the utility of this technique. Compensated and modified CORDIC algorithms are also developed."
"A new single-error-correcting scheme for binary adders is devised in this paper. A new weight function [called the Arithmetic Series Weight Function (ASWF)] of binary integers is defined. By using this weight function, a simple weight-preserved relation among the operands, sums and carries of binary adders is obtained. The error-correcting scheme is based on this relation. The redundancy of this scheme is comparable to that of the other error-control techniques in binary computer arithmetic. Moreover, the error-correcting procedure is simple and can be carried out by solving a simple algebraic equation involving only additive operations."
"In this paper the problems associated with the minimal realization of synchronous sequential machines by unate cellular cascades have been studied. Given the sequential machine in the form of a flow table, a systematic procedure is followed to generate all the selectable sets. Compatible sets consisting of these selectable sets are next determined and the different secondary variables are assigned. The nested functional forms of the next-state expressions for these variables are finally established. The proposed method is very systematic and perfectly suited for machine processing."
"This paper introduces a class of programmable cellular arrays, called control arrays, and presents a technique for programming these arrays to realize asynchronous control systems. Control arrays are two-dimensional uniform networks composed of a collection of identical cells that can be independently programmed to one of two internal states. A control system is a device that controls one or more operations by means of initiation and termination signals that are transmitted through bidirectional control links. A control system model is developed by augmenting the marked graph model in order to represent constraints on the generation of these control signals. Finally, an array synthesis procedure for realizing control systems with control arrays is presented."
"A simple, necessary and sufficient test is developed for testing whether a single connection in a tree-type NAND network is redundant. A procedure is presented for testing every connection in the network. The computational complexity of the procedure is mi2 where m = the number of gates and i = the average number of inputs per gate in the network."
"This paper investigates a potential application of microprogrammable memories to the problem of sequential network synthesis and computer design. It is shown that by allowing a controllable amount of memory redundance, a microprogrammed emulation of a state table can be organized such that decision branches in the microprogram are achieved in an immediate multiport manner, without the need of additional branch steps in the microprogram, thus increasing operational speed. A design technique is developed which, for a given state table, allows a minimum number of memory address variables to be used while minimizing the dependence of the variables on both the input and current state information. This technique has immediate practical application in the design of sequential networks, and is shown to be feasible in the controller design of a general purpost computer."
"The problem of finding optimal routes in a packet-switched computer network can be formulated as a nonlinear multicommodity flow problem."
"One problem associated with test generation algorithms for sequential circuits is that they often produce tests which, when applied to the circuit under test, create static and/or dynamic hazards which may invalidate the test. Usually, for static hazards, but not dynamic hazards, these situations can be predicted using a logic simulator. In this paper we present procedures which can be added to path sensitization test generation algorithms so that the resulting procedure will not produce tests which will be invalidated due to hazards. Incidental to this work is a new simulation technique for handling both static and dynamic hazards. The principal concepts behind this work deal with detecting when hazards are created in a circuit; propagating hazard status information related to a signal line through a circuit; detecting those conditions at flip-flop inputs which necessitate hazard free conditions; and finally, selecting test inputs so that all hazard free conditions are satisfied."
"Test sequences constructed by most test generation procedures often create time dependent results when applied to a circuit. These dependencies often invalidate the test. The main cause for this situation is that the test generation procedures and circuit models employed do not take into account many aspects of delay associated with a circuit. In this paper we present modeling techniques to be used by conventional test generation procedures to alleviate some of these problems. These models include the cases of equal, unequal and ambiguous delay values. Both inertial and transport delays are considered. Both static and dynamic output behavior is studied, though we restrict inputs to fundamental mode operation. Finally, a new type of fault, caUed a delay fault, is introduced, and a model developed so that a test to detect this class of fault can be generated via conventional test generation techniques. In summary, this paper attempts to outline procedures and identify problem areas so that test generation is more of a science rather than a hit and miss process, and so that the correctness of results need not always be verified via simulation or physical fault injection."
"A method for the approximation of all the real roots of an n-order polynomial equation is developed. It is assumed that intervals containing the solutions are known. Bilinear transformations are used to approximate the solution. Convergence is achieved."
"This correspondence deals with collections of n binary relations between Boolean and/or pseudo-Boolean functions which are combined by an n-ary relation. A new algorithm is described for solving these relations."
"Totally self-checking checkers for k-out-of-(2k + 1), (k + 1)-out-of-(2k + 1), and k-out-of-2k codes are given. The new checkers for the k-out-of-2k codes require only 2k tests to detect all stuck-at faults."
"According to the dictionary definition, a \"metaphor\" merely suggests a likeness between one kind of object or idea and another. Thus, the word connotes a less powerful bond of association than that customarily attributed to a model and its correspondent. Our current knowledge of brain function, particularly in relation to behavior, warrants the modesty; indeed, the term, \"caricature,\" occasionally used by the author of this book may serve even better. This proposed \"method of metaphors\" implies flexible use of analogy, i.e., assertions such as the following can be advanced without any fear of commitment to \"nothing but\" projections and without much concern for the degree of current acceptance: \"Humans are computers/machines.\" \"Humans are animals.\" \"Memory is a hologram.\" And even \"Neurons are people.\" These are all examples of metaphors examined or referred to in this book."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Several methods have been considered for storing arrays in a parallel memory system so that various useful partitions of an array can be fetched from the memory with a single access. Some of these methods fetch vectors in an order scrambled from that required for a computation. This paper considers the problem of unscrambling such vectors when the vectors belong to a class called p-ordered vectors. This class of vectors is defined in such a way that elements that should be adjacent in an unscrambled vector are p elements apart in the p-ordered vector."
"A simple mathematical model of (time-varying), program demand for main memory is developed. The model is based on the use of the immigration-death process, and is particularly suited to modeling the total demand of several programs. The goal is to study the behavior of the system under various schemes of dynamically allocating main memory among the programs. In particular, given some sort of working-set storage management we study what margin of free space should be reserved when programs are moved in and out of main memory, so that the frequency of overflow-underflow events is kept reasonably low, while at the same time maintaining a reasonably high degree of multiprogrammig."
"Characteristics of a multiwire transmission line with inhomogeneous medium, as used for wiring in digital equipment, are investigated with respect to the cross-coupling noise, or cral. Formulas of crosstalk magnitudes are derived. Then they are simplifled for two specific kinds of transmission lines, i. e., a kind of strip lines and a line with equalized coupling. They are ready for straight-forward calculation by a computer, and agree with experimental results very well. A special kind of norm is introduced to simplify matrix calculations into scalar approximations to estimate a guaranteed upper bound of crosstalk voltages in the general case. It is found useful as a criterion in the first step of design considerations."
"A comparison of the central processing unit (CPU) time and storage requirements for the parallel and deductive fault simulation techniques is presented. Versions of a parallel and deductive simulator were implemented and the comparison performed on an IBM System/360 Model 67 by simulating representative circuits including shift registers, sequencers, counters, two memory units, and a processor. The results indicate that the deductive technique requires less CPU time for \"loosely sequential\" circuits or circuits having large numbers of simulated faults (e.g., >1000). The parallel technique is faster for small (e.g., <500 gates) \"highly sequential\" circuits or for small numbers of simulated faults. The storage required for a parallel simulator, however, can always be less than that required for a deductive simulator. In general, if sufficient memory is available, the deductive simulator is the more cost-effective simulator when a wide range of circuits is to be simulated and only one type of simulator is available. A substantial savings in logic circuit development cost can be realized when the proper simulation technique is used for logic design verification, fault analysis, and the generation of diagnostic data."
"The presence of redundancy in combinational networks increases the cardinality of the test set to detect all stuck-at-faults. A solution to this problem is to identify and remove all redundancies in the networks before deriving test sets. It is shown in this paper that the identification of redundancy in arbitrary combinational networks is an extremely tedious problem."
"A method for the realization of fail-safe sequential circuits is presented where flip-flops are employed for representing the internal states. First, such a design technique where the circuit will be trapped in an erroneous state into which it is transferred by a fault is shown. Further, the condition for assuring that the circuit will be dropped into the particular (predetermined) final state when a fault exists is described. Finally, some extensions of the technique are attempted."
"A necessary and sufficient condition for a linear sequential circuit to possess a feedforward inverse is given. This condition for existence of a feedforward inverse is given in terms of the Markov parameters rather than the minors of the transfer function matrix of the linear sequential circuit as has been the case in previous studies on this problem. An upper bound on the required memory of a feedforward inverse for a linear sequential circuit is established in terms of n, the dimension of the state transition matrix and Lo, the inherent delay of the linear sequential circuit. When the original linear sequential circuit is itself feedforward, a stronger upper bound on the memory of a feedforward inverse is established in terms of u, the input memory, k, the number of inputs, and Lo. Both upper bounds on the required inverse memory are shown to be tight in the sense that for each set of possible values of the parameters entering the bound there exists at least one linear sequential circuit whose inverse requires input memory equal to the bound. Finally, a practical and simple algorithm is given to construct a minimal memory inverse."
"A digital electronic hardware design and construction system is described. Basic to the system is a microprogrammed control processor which is used unmodified in all devices constructed using this technique. This processor has no data manipulation capabilities; all arithmetic, logic, and I/O capabilities are supplied by logically complete hardware modules called functional units. The processor supplies control signals on 256 unique instruction lines. Each of these instruction lines can be wired as a control signal to one or more functional units. A control signal may cause data transfer between functional units, test the status of a functional unit, or cause a functional unit to perform a specific internal function. A single data bus connects each of the functional units and the control processor such that the flow and manipulation of data are controlled by a microprogram. A logic machine refers to the ensemble of control processor, single data bus, several functional units, and a microprogram all arranged so that a specific digital system is constructed."
"This paper considers a solution to the multiprocessor scheduling problem for the case where the ordering relation between tasks can be represented as a tree. Assume that we have n identical processors, and a number of tasks to perform. Each task Tirequires an amount of time μito complete, 0 < μi≤ k, so that k is an upper bound on task time. Tasks are indivisible, so that a processor once assigned must remain assigned until the task completes (no preemption). Then the \"longest path\" scheduling method is almost-optimal in the following sense."
"A method of video compaction based on transmitting only the first instance of each class of digitized patterns is shown to yield a compaction ratio of 16: 1 on a short passage of text from the IEEE SPECTRUM. Refinements to extend the bandwidth reduction to 40: 1 by relatively simple means are proposed but not demonstrated."
"A nearest neighbor classifier is one which assigns a pattern to the class of the nearest prototype. An algorithm is given to find prototypes for a nearest neighbor classifier. The idea is to start with every sample in a training set as a prototype, and then successively merge any two nearest prototypes of the same class so long as the recognition rate is not downgraded. The algorithm is very effective. For example, when it was applied to a training set of 514 cases of liver disease, only 34 prototypes were found necessary to achieve the same recognition rate as the one using the 514 samples of the training set as prototypes. Furthermore, the number of prototypes in the algorithm need not be specified beforehand."
"A class of universal finite-state machine structures employing arrays of identical modules is shown to be capable of dynamic repair by the process of reconfiguration. Coverage on the order of 98 percent of all stuck-at faults is demonstrated with no redesign of the array being necessary. After specifying a formal model for the array structure, a complete theory is developed capable of determining the minimal number of configurations necessary to obtain maximal coverage of stuck-at faults without redesigning the network. Inherent redundancy in the array structure results in this unusual capability. Many faults are also tolerated in each system configuration."
"Multithreshold many-valued switching primitives are introduced. Their usefulness in the construction of many-valued storage elements is demonstrated. It is shown that they can be advantageously employed in large combinational networks, such as those found in arithmetic units."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to provide an example computer logic graph and data concerning various partitions and mappings of this graph. This information should be of particular interest to those workers who are developing partitioning and mapping algorithms, since it provides a means to test and compare alternative methods. It should also be of use to those interested in other algorithms (e.g., placement, diagramming, grouping, etc.) for logic graphs."
"An algorithm to synthesize two-dimensional AND-EOR arrays is given. The design criterion chosen is to minimize the number of columns in the two-dimensional cellular arrays. It is also shown that And-Eor arrays, synthesized using the algorithm presented, can be modified such that 2n + 5 test vectors will detect any single fault in the array realizing an n-variable function with only one observable output. Furthermore, this test set is shown to be independent of the function being realized by the cellular array under test."
"An algorithmic procedure for designing optimal and near-optimal checking sequences for output faults is presented. For the specific cases where minimum length cannot be guaranteed, the algorithm also determines an upper bound on the excess length of the resulting sequence. Several extensions of the method are discussed, such as the application of output checking sequences for diagnosing purposes. The possibilities of this approach in the search for algorithms that yield optimal checking sequences for more general classes of faults are illustrated by applying the method in an ad hoc fashion and obtaining a complete checldng experiment."
"An expression for evaluating the Walsh power spectra of random signals with very short time correlations is given."
"This book was inspired by course B3 (Introduction to Discrete Structures) of the ACM Curriculum 68. Five major topics are treated: sets and relations; graphs; algebraic structures; lattices; and Boolean Algebras. The particular order of these topics is from general to specific. \"We start with the simplest structures, sets, and by adding properties, we reach more complicated structures.\" The five chapters evincing this scheme are sandwiched between Chapter 0, \"Preliminary\" (designed to establish some minimum of terminology), and two short chapters representing candidates for additions of this course: 1) combinatorics and 2) algorithms and Turing machines."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "By modifying the acceptability conditions in finite automata, a new and equivalent variant—the \"structure automaton\"— is obtained. The collection SR(Σ) of sets of tapes on Σ definable by deterministic structure-automata forms, however, a proper subset of the collection of regular sets. The structure and closure properties of SR(Σ) are analyzed in detail, using a natural topology on Σ*, in which the closed sets are the reverse ultimately definite sets. A set of tapes V is in SR(Σ) iff it is a finite union of regular \"convex\" sets. SR(Σ) is closed under Boolean operations, but not-closed under product, star, or transpose operations. In fact, SR(Σ) is exactly the Boolean closure of the regular closed sets. The \"sigture\" of a set is also defined and it is shown that a regular V is in SR(Σ) iff it has finite signature. Decision problems are also treated."
"A combinational circuit realizing the switching function f(x) may be regarded as a solution verifier for the Boolean equation f(x) = 1. (*) The output of the circuit is 1, that is, if and only if the input-vector x is a solution for (*). We use the term \"equational logic\" to denote an approach to circuit synthesis based on (*) rather than on the function f(x). The central problem of equational logic is to find a system of equations gi(x) = hi(x) (i = 1,2,...,k), of the simplest possible form, that has the same solutions as (*). Given such a k-equation system, f(x) may be realized as the output of a k-wide digital comparator whose inputs are the 2k g's and h's constituting the system. The problem of finding a simple system of equations equivalent to a given equation was investigated more than a century ago by Willian Stanley Jevons, who called it \"the inverse problem of logic.\" It was thought by Jevons and other 19th century logicians that the inverse problem is \"always tentative,\" i.e., that it does not admit of algorithmic solution. It is shown in this paper, however, that the inverse problem may be solved as a covering problem by use of the \"table of consequences\" of Poretsky. As presently formulated, this approach is limited in practical utility by the large size of the tables involved. It appears that a practical solution technique requires a reformulation of the inverse problem."
"This paper is concerned with the synthesis of irredundant tree networks with two-input single-output flexible cells. An algorithm is developed which tests whether a given Boolean function is tree realizable; if it is tree realizable, a best tree is generated which realizes the function. It is shown that for each realizable function there exists a nontrivial unique partition from which a best tree can be constructed. Finally, the number of functions realizable by irredundant trees is determined."
"Computer-to-computer communication in a very large net, parallel processing, and content-based in retrieval associative memories all can be viewed in a broader context as the broadcast of a \"to-whom-it-may-concern\" type message and the subsequent routing of the response messages to the broadcast source. Simplicity and economies in logic and memory can be obtained if the routing does not require site information and is as decentralized as possible. We propose a procedure for such routing in a large net of modules of limited logic and memory, with connectivity primarily to near neighbors with one-way channels. The procedure is based on the Selcuk principle which maintains that in properly constructed networks routing can be achieved with each module basing its switching decision only on the identity of its input channel(s) upon which the broadcast message first arrived—a strictly local information. One-way channel connectivity emerges as advantageous because it requires much less memory and logic than two-way arrangements, while achieving nearly the same efficiency in properly constructed nets."
"This graphics extension uses a preprocessor which converts graphics commands into calls to a lower level graphics package. The preprocessor converts the source code containing the extended statements into a Fortran program. The objective is to generate contour plots or graphs with minimum effort by statements such as PLOT(U) or PLOT((X, Y)). In these cases, we are using the default options to specify scaling, coordinate labels, headings, etc. The user may override these default options at the expense of a more complex statement. Use of a preprocessor allows considerable freedom in the syntax."
"It is shown that a digital arc S is the digitization of a straight line segment if and only if it has the \"chord property:\" the line segment joining any two points of S lies everywhere within distance 1 of S. This result is used to derive several regularity properties of digitizations of straight line segments."
"The question of replacing a single-density, two-channel, two-controller disk system with a cheaper, plug-compatible, dual-density, single-channel system having the same capacity is considered. An analytical model is explored to examine the effect of such a replacement on average response time, that is, the time between issuing an I/O request and completion of the request. Queueing theory is used to obtain curves of response time versus arrival rate, and the results are compared with corresponding curves obtained by a simulation model."
"A memory device is proposed which is intended to fill the memory access gap, i.e., whose speed, cost, and capacity are intermediate between those of the electronic and electromechanical memories. Information is stored by electroplating metal on one or the other of two electrodes. The memory is random access and nonvolatile. Selection is by a coincident-voltage technique and stack operation is similar to the operation of core memories. The estimated driving requirement of a selection line is 1 V at 1 mA, indicating that small-area IC logic circuits will be able to drive the memory. The proposed memory will be mass-fabricated and the cost is foreseen as being primarily the interconnection cost between the IC decoding and sensing chips and the bit select conductors. The cost is estimated at 5 mcents/bit."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of equivalence and dominance relations between sequential stochastic machines. We first introduce the transition output stochastic automaton together with the notion of pseudoautomaton. In Section III, we establish some fundamental properties concerning the rank of a stochastic automaton."
"A technique is presented for dividing a positive binary integer by ten, in which the bits of the input are presented serially, low-order bit first. A complete division by ten is performed in two word times (comparable to the time needed for two serial additions). The technique can be useful in serial conversions from binary to decimal, or in scaling binary numbers by powers of 10."
"Some fundamental results in the area of computability theory are presented. These include the fact that a finite state machine can find the residue of an arbitrarily long sequence using any modulus and any radix. This leads to the consideration of using modular arithmetic on arbitrarily long sequences with a finite state machine. A finite state machine can perform modular addition, subtraction, multiplication, and, if defined, division of a pair of arbitrarily large numbers, using any modulus and any radix."
"Cyclic and dyadic shifts of a periodic sequence are illustrated on the H diagram. Fast Walsh-Hadamard transform of the shifted (both cyclic and dyadic) sequence is represented graphically on the H diagram. The shift-invariant properties of the power spectrum are derived from these operations."
"In this correspondence, a new circuit structure is proposed which basically supresses the possibility of hazards and critical races in asynchronous sequential machines. In contrast to many approaches which try to solve these problems by changing the form of the automaton model, we suggest a more general \"hardware\" solution. This configuration provides performance extremely close to that of classical circuits while allowing substantial reduction in circuit cost."
"An approximation of mutual information which is often used for feature evaluation in pattern recognition is shown to be more closely related to Bayes error probability than mutual information is when equal a priori probabilities are assumed."
"Boolean difference when considering the polarized polynomial forms (AND–EXCLUSIVE OR forms in which each variable in all terms is complemented or uncomplemented) is used in this correspondence. Algorithms for determining quasi-minimnal and minimal polarized forms of the given functions are described."
"Residue arithmetic offers the possibility of \"carryfree\" arithmetic as far as the operations of addition, subtraction, and multiplication are concerned. It is faster to implement these operations using residue arithmetic as compared to implementation using binary arithmetic. However, the process of algebraic sign detection is much slower in residue arithmetic and tends to offset the advantage of speed in the above three operations."
"After a brief review of alternative techniques, this correspondence presents an approach to multiple-match resolver design which is significantly faster than ones which have hitherto been published. The approach involves the repeated use of a standard functional block to build resolver tree structures capable of generating addresses or logic vectors. Several example designs are shown to illustrate the concept, but the basic intent is to provide a method which can be used effectively under many logic family and physical constraints. For activity vectors of N bits, the scheme produces resolvers with speeds of around log2 N unit gate propagation delays."
"In this correspondence a design of fault-tolerant carry-save adders is presented. The design of fault-tolerant carry-save adders is of practical interest since in most of the modem day computers a carry-save adder is an essential circuit. We will also indicate how carry-save adders can be well used as a logic unit and thus some broader application of the design is illustrated."
"Threshold selection for picture segmentation is relatively easy when the frequency distribution of gray levels in the picture is strongly bimodal, with the two peaks comparable insize and separated by a deep valley. This report describes a method of handling cases in which the peaks are very unequal in size and the valley is broad. A Laplacian operation is applied to the picture to determine points that lie on or near the edges of objects. Threshold selection becomes easier when the frequency distribution of gray levels of these points is used."
"Bosson and Hong1 have developed an effective procedure for multiple fault detection. However, their claim that their procedure gives near-minimal results is not necessarily the case."
"The comment is valid in that the authors followed the given algorithm G in footnote 1 to the letter to come to their conclusion. However, the spirit of the algorithm was somewhat misrepresented in the original paper. A clearer version for the algorithm G follows. The two additional tests claimed by the commentors do not arise if the following version is carried to the letter. And therefore our original assertion about the near minimality still seems valid. Similarly, the additional tests claimed by the commentors using procedure NR will be eliminated if the following version of algorithm G is used in procedure NR. This answers the commentors conclusion 2) in [1]."
 "The two's complement multiplication algorithm discussed by Baugh and Wooley1 is indeed a viable one, and we have used it several times in the past to great advantage in applications where modestly high performance signed multiplies were required, but the design was constrained to commercially available, standard components. This approach to sign compensation, which was first described to me in 1969 by C. M. Rader, does give rise to a uniform partial product array which can be efficiently summed by any of several techniques."
"This correspondence presents a simpler proof for Baugh and Wooley's two's complement parallel array multiplication algorithm, as demonstrated in a recent paper.1 The above algorithm converts a two's complement multiplication to an equivalent parallel array addition problem in which all partial product bits are positive."
"Inevitably, the author of a pioneering work faces a difficult task. In a volatile field such as performance analysis, this difficulty is increased by the likelihood that techniques which were reasonably new at the time the author commenced writing the book, will be well known by the time of its appearance and review. Unfortunately, the book by Mr. Drummond has fallen prey to this possibility. As a result, the user will find the book to contain a wealth of useful, historical information; however, it is unlikely that the user will feel, upon concluding the book, that he has the field of performance \"in hand.\" To provide context for this comment, let us begin by citing the contents of the book."
"The preoccupation with structured programming is so great these days that it is difficult to find a paper in the current literature on programming that does not make at least a token reference to well-structured programming. While much benefit may be derived by focusing attention on good programming techniques, many of the principles of structured programming have been known and practiced for years. Unfortunately, the recent focus of attention has produced a substantial amount of verbiage of little value and in the resulting hubbub the fundamental ideas have often been obscured. It is therefore refreshing to find a book concerned with the basic issues of good programming that treats the subject as a matter of practice and style, not theory."
"The objective of this reference book is to familiarize computer and communications specialists with the increasingly important aspects of the connection of remote computing components. The chapters from 13 author teams contain sufficient key material to warrant the book's being in the library of any worker in the computer-communications area. The important topics in this relatively new technical area are adequately covered, and references provide contact with germane literature."
"The combination of the subjects of pattern recognition, learning and thought is an interesting combination of related disciplines that perhaps falls within the notion of total-concept approach. This book has an interesting and well-structured approach to the mixture of the interrelated concepts of pattern-characteristic recognition, cognitive processes, thought development, and retention abilities by machines programmed to perform such tasks. The author, in conversing with the reader, relates an extensive surveyed background in the areas of pattern recognition, artificial intelligence, psychology, biology, and mathematics. This is done so as to be able to facilitate understanding and comprehension by both the non-computing layman and the avid practitioner."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In certain real-time multiprocessor controllers the program memory must be at least partly replicated to reduce queuing delays and meet throughput requirements. In these organizations the program memory is a common pool consisting of K sections servicing m CPU's. The jth section is of size Xi and is replicated ni times (ni ≤ m); j = 1,...-, K. Dynamic programming is used to find optimal values of the number of replications ni relative to given fixed values of m, K, and Xi. This solution satisfies throughput requirements at minimum cost, relative to the given m, K, and Xi. The process is repeated for several values of the last three parameters, using a systematic search procedure described herein, until reaching the first local minimum. This usually provides a satisfactory suboptimal solution. Partial replication (n, ≤ m) is economically attractive in a wide class of real-time control systems in which the CPU's access a relatively small portion of the program store most of the time. Quantitative examples indicate that partial replication may cause 30 to 40 percent cost reduction compared to full replication."
"An associative approach to data management is developed, and a methodology for measuring the performance and effectiveness of this approach is provided. Mathematical models which quantitatively describe retrieval, storage requirements, updating, and flexibility are developed for both a class of current sequential systems and an associative system. Utilizing these models, a comparison is made between the two systems under certain assumptions so that for given classes of data management problems, one can determine which system is more favorable."
"Fail-safe sequential machines can be constructed in such a way that if a failure happens in the sequential part, the ulterior functioning must carry on outside the code chosen to represent the set of states. This paper presents a study of the failures in the input combinational circuit and of the feasibility conditions of sequential machines with states coded by a k-out-of-n code. The electronic circuit is realized in a classical way (on-set realization) and must obey two hypotheses, 1) no failure on clock line C, and 2) single fault (stuck at 0 or stuck at 1) on other connections than C."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of designing easily testable sequential machines, output-observable machines, for which there exist very short checking experiments. A sequential machine for which any initial state can be uniquely determined only by the output response is said to be output-observable. An algorithm is developed to modify a given machine to an output-observable one by adding a minimum number of extra outputs. This method is based on the fact that the output-observable realization of a given machine M exists if and only if M is semi-FSR realizable (a special type of feedback shift register realization)."
"Some new algorithms are presented for efficiently generating pseudorandom noise both in hardware and software. In software, a new word of pseudorandom bits can be generated about every 12 machine cycles, and hardware implementations can generate pseudo Gaussian noise with bandwith of 20 MHz or more. The algorithms generate binary maximal-length linear recursive sequencies of high degree and with many nonzero terms. The ability to efficiently implement high-degree recursions is important because the number of consecutive bits which can be guaranteed to be both linearly and statistically independent is equal to the degree of the recursion. The implementations are by interconnection of several short shift registers in a linear manner in such a way that different widely spaced phase shifts of the same p-n sequence appear in the stages of the several registers. Some specific algorithms have been subjected to extensive statistical evaluation, with no evidence found to distinguish the sequences from purely random binary sequences."
"As a method for greatly reducing power dissipation in logic networks, we propose some logic organization techniques for logic networks. By such techniques, their power dissipation is to be minimized under certain input conditions, or the average power dissipation in the whole network should be minimized. A logic network in which these problems are taken into account will be called a power minimized logic circuit (PML)."
"Reordering the terms of a Reed-Muller or ring sum expansion of a switching function expressed in terms of the Boolean ring operations AND and EXCLUSIVE OR in a more natural way exploits the similarities between these expressions and unate functions and displays mathematical structure which apparently has not been noted before. McNaughton's n orderings on the n cube appear in a new setting and lead quickly to simple but geometrically satisfying theorems dealing with a matrix of coefficients of all 2n ring sum expressions for various polarities of inputs. The structure of these matrices for minterms, implicants, and functions are shown to have simple and attractive forms. An algorithm is presented which allows simple determination of a ring sum realization using logic array notation, and which can also be used to find minimum cost polarities. A second algorithm allows nonexhaustive and near-optimal handling of functions with DON'T CARE conditions."
"The consecutive retrieval (CR) property has been defined as the property of a query that can be answered by the retrieval of consecutive records in a file. In this correspondence we add some observations about boundary conditions to Gosh's study of the CR property."
"A theoretical model of a microprogram unit is formulated, and the relationship of this model to a form of feedback shift register is developed. The feedback shift-register machine variant has synchronous and asynchronous prototypes. The asynchronous binary feedback shift-register machines realize every fundamental mode asynchronous sequential (finite-state) machine. The synchronous feedback shift-register machine differs from the standard definition by the addition of transitional states to the usual (nontransitional) states, and a single step in the simulation is a move between nontransitional states. When synchronous feedback shift-register machines are generalized in this way, they also become universal components capable of simulating ali finite-state machines."
"In pattern recognition, the raw data and dimensionality of the measurement space is usually very large. Therefore, some form of dimensionality reduction has been commonly considered as a practical preprocessing method for feature selection. Based on a method that increases the variance while maintaining local structure, a technique is developed to determine intrinsic dimensionality. A cost function is introduced to guide the maintenance of the rank order and therefore local structure. Two criteria of using the cost function to increase the variance have been introduced. Several methods of defining the local regions are suggested. A program is implemented and tested to find the intrinsic dimensionality of a variety of experimental data."
"A hardware-implemented algorithm combining dynamic thresholding and edge detection allows black-white representation of gray-scale images for computer storage. The output resembles a highly detailed sketch, with resolution and contrast superior to a halftone representation. The same algorithm can be applied to text and line drawings, so that all three types of images can be stored using the same compression algorithm."
"Tan recently developed a heuristic state assignment algorithm for asynchronous sequential circuits. This note extends Tan's procedure to include optimization of the output state logic, as well as the next state logic, and single-output-change (SOC) flow tables with DON'T CARE entries. The extended algorithm exhibits the same simplicity of execution as Tan's procedure."
"An algorithm is described in this note to determine whether a switching function is asummable or not. The algorithm is efficient and simple for testing 2-asummability."
"In this correspondence a class of algorithms for recursive estimation of the mean of a random yariable is described and its properties are studied. New algorithms are presented that are shown to be statisticaily more efficient than the previous algorithms, and only slightly less efficient than the optimal algorithm of the same type. The computation time remains the same as in the best previous algorithm, whereas the optimal algorithm implies a considerably longer computation time."
"For the average error probability Pe associated with the Bayes recognition procedures for two possible patterns, using no context, new upper and lower bounds and approximations are obtained. Results are given in terms of simple functions of feature \"reliability\" and a priori probabilities of the patterns. Two kinds of feature \"reliability\" are considered, i.e., distance between probability distributions and error probabilities without the use of a priori probabilities. Computational advantages offered by those bounds and approximations are pointed out. The question as to how close they are to Peis examined. In some special cases, they are perfect. Numerical examples show that the differences are in general about 5-10 percent, and comparisons with certain known results are quite favorable. Possible applications are discussed. Extension is also made to m possible patterns arranged in a hierarchy with two elements at each branching."
"A rank-augmnented LU-algorithm is suggested for computing a generalized inverse of a matrix. Initially suitable diagonal corrections are introduced in (the symmetrized form of) the given matrix to facilitate decomposition; a backward-correction scheme then yields a desired generalized inverse."
"It is shown that high-speed generation of maximal length sequences can be realized by time division multiplexing instead of modulo-two adding the sequences obtained by decimation of a maximal length sequence. The advantage of this method is that higher speeds are obtainable."
"A greatly simplified configuration is proposed for the array that performs summation in a cellular logic module. Such modules realize arbitrary, multioutput, combinational switching behavior as sums of products (or sums of other terms). Special cases of these modules are random-access and associative memories (conventional or READ-ONLY). The simplifications are achieved by taking advantage of the symmetries among the product (or term) buses and symmetries among the output lines, as well as the fact that extensive sharing of terms among output functions does not normally occur in practice. In many cases of interest, the simplified memory array can be reduced to a single column of cells."
"A generalization of the Löwenheim formula for the solutions of a Boolean equation was recently obtained by Ju. A. Serikov. In this correspondence the Serikov theorem is written in a somewhat simpler form and it is shown that it can also be viewed as a particular case of the classical Löwenheim formula."
"The use of a gray level transformation which transforms a given empirical distribution function of gray level values in an image into a uniform distribution has been used as an image enhancement as well as for a normalization procedure. This transformation produces a discrete variable whose empirical distribution might be expected to be approximately uniform since it is related to the well known distribution transformation. In this correspondence, an extension of the theorem is given which shows that the theorem \"almost\" holds for an \"almost\" continuous input distribution. The application of the discrete distribution transformation to computer image enhancement is considered."
"This note indicates some difficulties in applying the above paper's1computational \"work measure.\""
"This note presents a discussion of some issues that have been raised about my paper1\"A Measure of Computational Work.\""
"This is an excellent text! The title implies a purpose of presenting the PL/I language with respect to scientific and engineering programming, but the book accomplishes much more. In addition to a good general introduction to computers, the author works in valuable background material from computer science, mathematics, and good programming techniques. The reader who masters this text will have acquired a strong general background in scientific computing in addition to extreme competence in PL/I programming."
"This notebook sized paperback is intended to provide an introduction to the BASIC programmiLng language. The text is unfortunately too basic, bordering on the golly-gee whiz, computers are fast syndrome; especially in the first chapter, which introduces digital computers. The level is uneven, an extremely simplistic introduction, a standard coverageof BASIC, and a fairly machine dependent coverage of vendor specific implementation information result in a confused image of the intended reader."
"It might be said that this book points in the direction of our society's current renewed emphasis on the human. In order to make dialogues that people will use, the systems designer should become aware of the user, who is not a machine but a human being, and become aware, too, of the user's particular needs, sensitivities, and psychological reactions to conversing with a computer. For as Martin states in his introduction, \"the future growth of the computer industry and the acceptance of computer methods will depend largely on the successful establishment of effective man-machine communications.\""
"This is the third edition of a rather well known textbook and/or reference book dealing with the principles of operation of digital computers or digital data handling devices. It is primarily concerned with hardware and discusses programming to the extent necessary to illustrate the principles of computer operation. It is most useful as a text for students without significant knowledge of the internal structure of digital machines but with a moderate maturity and a little mathematical sophistication. This reviewer has used it with all levels of undergraduates, with beginning graduate students when supplemented, and in adult education courses. The material is not covered in great depth but it is not a superficial survey either. This text might serve adequately for an introductory Computer Science course or even with a proper group of high school students."
"This is a textbook in Computer Science based on the Vienna Definition Language developed by P. Lucas and his colleagues at the IBM laboratory in Vienna. Their original purpose was to produce a formal definition of PL/I, but the language and the methodology that they have developed has much wider application."
"With the increasing interest in automata theory, the number of books on this subject has been steadily increasing since the early 1960's. Depending on the audience, one can now choose books in the graduate level as well as in the introductory junior-senior level. Depending on the emphasis, one can also choose books that approach the subject from different angles. This book, Abstract Automata, by P. H. Starke of Germany is certainly a welcome addition to this collection."
"This is the first book to cover the topic of interactive computer graphics. I found the book to be both very useful and very disappointing."
"This is another in a series of state-of-the-art reports from Infotech. It consists of edited discussions and presentations plus invited papers. Because a volume of this price will most likely not be sent out on approval, I think it important to review briefly the contents in detail before commenting on their value."
"This excellent book is the sixth in a series of volumes stemming from symposia in areas of current interest in computer science by the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University."
"This book consists mainly of the descriptions of a large number of algorithms for solving mathematical programming problems. The authors state in the preface that \"Because of the fast growth of the theory and applications of optimization in the past decade, there has been a need for critical review in this area, which would serve at least two purposes: to be a manual for practitioners and an orderly description of the state of the art.\" The book does serve these two purposes quite well, and especially the first of these."
"This book evolved from notes for a seminar with the same title which has been given repeatedly at the Institute for Advanced Technology, a directorate of CDC. It intends to present an integrated guideline for the design of on-line computer systems, focusing on technical (rather than managerial) aspects, although it may help the manager to maintain a fundamental understanding of what his programmers and analysts are up to. Its six parts are meant to be basically independent, and the following is an overview of their contents."
"The two volumes in this set belong in every library on compiler design. Together they achieve a level of rigor and completeness not attained by any other book on the subject."
"Historians tell us that in ancient times the usual mode of operation of a Computer System Manufacturer was for an electronic engineer to emerge from his laboratory one day and tell the waiting programmer \"Lookǃ Here's our next modelǃ\" The engineer then disappeared to work on the next-but-one model, leaving the programmer to work around any deficiencies or awkwardness in the hardware design which had been handed to him. In modern times, the idea that a machine should be designed to fulfil a function, that the intended use of the machine should supply constraints on its design (rather than the converse), has received at least lip service in most quarters. Some manufacturers have even adopted it as a way of life."
"Pattern Recognition Techniques does just what the doctor ordered; it serves as a broad informal introduction for engineers, computer scientists, and biologists to the field of pattern recognition. All necessary background is developed within the text, which is illustrated in terms of character recognition. It would be difficult to find a more extensive bibliography. This greatly contributes to the usefulness of this book."
"This book will become a lethal weapon against skepticism toward the possibility of presenting programming as a precise discipline based on clear and simple principles. It treats what many regard as advanced topics in programming in so straightforward a manner, that there is little doubt that the \"advanced topics\" are in fact elementary notions. The material is presented simultaneously at many levels: the college sophomore will enjoy a hearty repast of solid conceptual and practical aspects of algorithm design, and the college professor or industrial professional will enjoy many morsels from the philosophy of programming to practical advice on the best uses of each language construction. The material is presented in a fast-moving, unadorned style, reminiscent in places of sketchy lecture notes; indeed, fully fourteen chapters appear in the first 124 pages. Every concept is backed by an example; I counted approximately 45 sample algorithms or programs in the text and about 25 more in the Exercises. The sample programs are masterpieces of clarity, exemplifying how invariant assertions can be embedded in comments to make understanding and verifying the programs as simple as possible. Wirth leaves little doubt as to the power of this technique, not merely by disoussing it but by doing it."
"This book covers most of the major topics in pattern recognition at a level appropriate to a new student of the field. Therefore it can be very useful as a textbook either for an introductory graduate, or an advanced undergraduate course. The authors have deliberately played down the mathematical formalism (no long or rigorous proofs) and assumed only that background which students in such courses are expected to have. They supply numerous problems and quite a few illustrative and instructive examples. One attractive feature is the critical evaluation of many of the techniques discussed which their own experience enables them to do. I enjoyed reading statements like the one on p. 179 about the literature on linear discriminant functions. Finally each chapter is followed by extensive historical and bibliographical remarks."
"This volume is one of a series of state of the art reports by Infotech. In some respects it is reminiscent of the software which is discussed within it. Its organization is a good example of top down specification via the method of successive refinement. There are other analogies too which shall be pointed out later."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A powerful means of analyzing nonlinear systems is provided by the Wiener functional expansion. However, this technique has not been implemented widely in experimental situations because of the difficulties associated with measuring the kernels of the system, which constitutes the analysis problem. A new method of measuring the kernels is described here in which the Walsh functions are used as the set of orthogonal functions with which the kernels are expanded. The multiplicative properties of the Walsh functions and the fast Walsh-Fourier transform make the measurement scheme very efficient."
"Modulo qiscalers or counters are one-input Moore machines whose state set contains a unique subset (called cycle) of states which occur in cyclic succession."
"A design procedure is presented which allows for detection of faults in asynchronous sequential machines in a real time environment. Faults affecting both the output states and the internal operation of the machine are detected. The class of faults initially considered are single stuck-at-1 and stuck-at-0 faults. However, since the detection system presented is static and continuous, the class of faults detected will be greatly extended to include intermittent and a large number of multiple faults."
"The problem of approximating a linear automaton (LA) over the field of real numbers by an automaton over the field of rationals is considered. \"Strong\" and \"weak\" types of approximation are defined and investigated. Necessary and sufficient conditions for an automaton to be approximable are given. The strong approximation method enables rational computation in irrational linear systems which is suited for computer use."
"A set of logic operators, first proposed by Roth [3], based on an algebraic topological interpretation of a function table, have provided the basis for the subsequent development of algorithms for the computer aided synthesis of combinatorial networks."
"A method of constructing binary search trees in a multiprocessor computer system is proposed. Asymptotically, this method achieves the maximum possible increase in speed as compared with a single processor computer system. To make better use of this method, a parametrized restructuring of binary search trees is also discussed."
"We propose a new architecture for dynamic memories in which the contents of any cell in memory can be accessed by applying a sequence of two primitive memory operations. The advantage of our memory over previous designs is its fast sequential access. Any word in an n cell memory can be accessed in 0(log n) steps. However, once two consecutive words have been accessed, following words can be accessed in one step per word."
"A novel high-performance processor architecture for processing a large number of independent instruction streams is proposed and its operating behavior studied. The proposed processor operates on instruction words in a two-address format (thereby eliminating the \"operating registers\"), and is organized in a fashion which permits as high degree of internal buffering and pipelining. The processor has the following properties: 1) The hardware cost grows only slightly more than linearly with the overall implementation cost; 2) The overall performance is primarily dependent on the processor wordtime and is only secondarily dependent on the supporting memory cycle time; 3) All instruction stream interfaces with memory occur at special queuing (buffer) units which are used to \"unscramble\" the instruction streams and continually provide work for subsequent processing elements."
"This paper presents quadratic programming models of memory conflict in multiprocessor systems where main memory consists of a set of memory modules common to all processors. Two jobs (programs) are said to be in conflict, or subject to memory conflict, whenever at a given time portions of them must be executed in the same memory module by different processors. We are interested in minimizing the total conflict by the proper assignment of jobs to main memory. Two allocation models are considered: one in which the jobs-to-memory assignment is to be made independent of any particular processors-to-jobs schedule, that is, expected memory conflict is to be minimized over the space of all schedules; and the second in which a definite processor schedule is assumed to be available. For both models, algorithms are formulated for the assignment of jobs to memory."
"Four commonly used multivalued algebras, the disjoint system of Post algebra developed by Epstein, the monotonic system of algebra called Muehldorf by some authors, the free system of algebra introduced by Braddock and Epstein, and the Herrmann system of algebra generalized here from its original three element algebra, are shown to be isomorphic. Transformations are then developed for transforming from one algebra to another. An example problem is presented to illustrate transforming from any of the above to the disjoint system of Post algebra."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop a method for evaluation of certain elementary functions on a digital computer by the use of continued fractions. The time required for this evaluation is drastically reduced by using \"short\" operations like shift and add, instead of multiplications. Functional consistency is the most important factor that aliows the expansion of a function into a continued fraction. Several cases are discussed; in particular the solution of the quadratic equation is discussed in more detail to demonstrate the convergence of the method."
"This paper shows that there exists a class of functions called data manipulating functions (DMF's), in sequential as well as paralel processors. The circuits used to achieve these functions can be considered to form an independent functional block, called a data manipulator. A basic organization applicable to both sequential and parallel processors is then suggested. The main deviation of a parallel processor orgaization from the conventional Von Neumann organization is seen to be in the bit-slice (bis) manipulating functions. A comprehensive set of bis manipulating functions from the categories of permuting, replicating, spacing and masking is given. Implementation of the last category, the masking functions, is usually through a mask register by defining its content (mask pattern). It is found that for many operations the required mask patterns are periodic and/or monotonic. The upper bounds of generating these patterns are found. The techniques and designs of two data manipulators for the first three categories of DMF's (permuting, replicating, spacing) are given. Periodic and monotonic mask patterns are also used to help in implementing some of these functions. In addition, it is shown that the data manipulator designs presented in this paper are extremely flexible to suit the requirements of various parallel processors."
"Some comments are offered on the number of I/O terminals p of the Q-universal logic modules (ULM) [2]. An equation is given in this note which will determine minimum number of I/O terminals for all n."
"This paper describes an algorithm for the approximate solution of vector Toeplitz systems via an iterative-improvement method. The algorithm exploits the special structure of Toeplitz matrices, namely, their similarity to vector circulants, and is particularly well suited for solving large systems. Sufficient convergence conditions and concrete error bounds for the iteration are presented along with an application of the routine to a problem in the design of planar digital filters for image processing."
"In this correspondence a new representation of a sequential machine (without output) is given which enables the determination of all incompatible pairs without any intermediate step(s). The method is programmable, is much faster, and requires less memory than existing methods."
"Division is a serial operation and it is argued that parallel division arrays are unnecessary since serial circulating dividers can be designed which are almost as fast, when using the same technology, but are a fraction of the cost."
"The main point made in the above comment, namely, that in our division array [1] only one row of the array is actively performing processing at any one time, is well taken. This leads to the reasonable conclusion that serially reusing a single row of logic, enabled by temporary storage of the partial remainder, leads to only a small (about 25 percent) speed degradation accompanied by substantial cost savings."
"In a recently published article, Story et al. detailed an organized search process leading to the optimum state assignment for a synchronous sequential machine. Their procedure begins with the calculation of a set of lower bounds (minimum numbers) on the costs of the excitation logic required for each possible distinct partial state assignment."
"By means of Monte Carlo method, an average cost function of ternary two variable switching function is obtained."
"It is shown that at most, n + 3 tests are required to detect any single stuck-at fault in an AND gate or a single faulty EXCLUSIVE OR (EOR) gate in a Reed-Muller canonical form realization of a switching function."
"When reading the above paper1, the unwary person might easily come to the conclusion that \"most carries are short.\" Actually, such a statement needs to be qualified. In fact, if a computer engineer designs an adder on this basis, he would probably find that the average add time is not as short as the theoretical analysis would lead him to expect. This is because Briley's analysis, and that of his predecessors Burks, Goldstine, and von Neumann [1], are both dependenent on the assumption that the numbers being added are evenly distributed among 2n possible bit combinations. In actual computation, most of the integers tend to have small magnitudes. Thus, a negative integer, if expressed in complement form, tends to have a long string of leading ones. When two such numbers are added, or when one of these is added to a positive integer giving a positive sum, a long string of carries would be generated. This means that in real computing situations the average carry might be much longer than Briley's analysis would indicate."
"Some comments on a recent contribution on multiple fault detection using test sets for single fault detection are presented. A counter example that shows some defects in generalizing from a tree to an arbitrary network are also included."
 "This book, translated from the original French publication of 1970, is accurately described by its title. Approximately 50 percent of the book is concerned with descriptions of numerically controlled machine tools and their application. The remainder is a very mathematical treatment of the analytic geometry necessary to define lines, curves, surfaces, and points of contact for numerically controlled tools."
"As reflected by this list of headings, a major part of the book is devoted to a description of analog/hybrid computer components and simulation techniques. In this respect, the book repeats material which is amply available in much older textbooks. The author then proceeds to extend those analog/hybrid techniques to the field of numerical algorithms. This is done specifically in chapter 3, and integrated in most of the other chapters along with the description of analog/hybrid methods of implementation."
"This book treats the difficult topic of \"operating systems\" in a somewhat novel manner–one which is not necessarily suggested by its title. The \"pragmatic approach\" amounts to basing the descriptions virtually entirely in the context of two very widely used operating systems: IBM's OS/MVT and IBM's TSS/360. As an expositional framework, these two systems certainly provide a surfeit of material–there are literally stacks of it in a large number of machine rooms throughout the country. Katzan culls and organizes this material in a manner which surely demonstrates that it's been culled and organized, but less surely demonstrates any significant extraction of the essences of OS's. The material is not, however, without its good points even though, in most instances, they are hard to discern from the jargon jungle which seems to be de regle when speaking of operating systems."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "There are a number of methods which use a clause table to generate the prime implicants of a switching function. This paper describes a technique for extending the clause table approach to the minimization of multi-terminal networks. The specific extension described here extends the algorithm of Slagle et al. to generate the important implicants of a set of switching functions and to determine a minimum realization."
"An investigation of the various cache schemes that are practical for a minicomputer has been found to provide considerable insight into cache organization. Simulations are used to obtain data on the performance and sensitivity of organizational parameters of various writeback and lookahead schemes. Hardware considerations in the construction of the actual cache-minicomputer are also noted and a simple cost/performance analysis is presented."
"An improved method for detection of faults in completely specified synchronous sequential machines is described. The technique is algorithmic, based on the concept of embedding the given binary machine into an easily testable R-valued machine. Heuristic optimization of additional permutation inputs is shown to lead to considerable reduction in the length of the fault sequence. A bound on the sequence length is derived, which in most cases is significantly lower than those of comparable methods."
"An algorithm is derived for multiprobe testing for shorts, opens, and wiring errors in any multiterminal wiring network, such as a printed circuit board, wiring harness, multiconductor cable, or backplane wiring board. For behavioral testing the minimum number of tests required, always achievable, is equal to p - 1 + [log2q], where p is the number of terminals in the largest interconnected cluster in the network, and q is the total number of clusters, including isolated terminals. For structural testing the number of tests required is less, and can be as small as [log2q] + 1 depending upon the assumptions made regarding the types of faults that can occur."
"This paper introduces procedures which enable one to settle the tessellation problem for the class of combinational cellular arrays with each cell having a binary horizontal input and a binary vertical input. Where all input combinations are applicable to all cells in the array in this class, the necessary number of tests is obtained from necessary prime as well as composite tessellations."
"This paper examines the dynamic fault behavior of asynchronous sequential machines, specifically identifying the faults which cause critical races and hazards, and presents a state assignment technique leading to a machine that enters one of a small set of error states whenever a fault occurs. Entry into an error state can be checked by very simple check circuits; a self-testing check circuit and one requiring only two tests for fault detection are discussed. An extension of the state assignment technique to produce a machine that is fail-safe is also presented. The fail-safe design has the property that once a fault has caused the machine to malfunction and enter an error state, the machine never leaves the error state and therefore does not produce erroneous outputs. This machine detects all but a small class of multiple faults."
"This paper illustrates an algorithm for finding a read-only memory (ROM) specification, optimal in the sense that it results in a minimum ROM bit dimension, starting with an instruction set description which employs acyclic directed graphs. The algorithm selects (by a tabular technique) a descriptive graph subset, shown to be sufficient; then it performs a heuristically guided search among possible solutions generated by the graphs in the subset. The algorithm works for instructions which are such that a microevent occurs at most once in a single instruction; some results apply to the general case as well."
"The discrete Monte Carlo method for the solution of partial differential equations has been studied theoretically and experimentally. A special purpose digital computer, the PDE machine, was designed and constructed from macromodules, and Monte Carlo solutions for illustrative problems were obtained. Error analysis has been made and experimental outcomes were compared with theoretical results. Using Monte Carlo methods the PDE machine has been proved to be very efficient from the viewpoint of accuracy and speed in comparison to the general purpose digital computer. Speeds of one solution every 2 seconds were obtained for Poisson's equations with a typical accuracy of better than 2 percent of the range of solutions."
"A sequential test procedure for the classification of statistically dependent patterns is developed. The test is based on the optimum (Bayes) compound decision theory and the theory of Wald's sequential probability ratio test (SPRT). The compound sequential probability ratio (SPRT) is shown to be recursively computable at every instant of the decision process. A two-class recognition problem with first-order Markov dependence among the pattern classes is considered for the purpose of comparing the performance of the CSPRT with that of Wald's SPRT. It is shown that when the pattern classes are statistically dependent the CSPRT requires, on the average, fewer features per pattern than Wald's equally reliable SPRT. Finally, the results of computer simulated recognition experiments using CSPRT and other sequential and nonsequential decision schemes are discussed in detail."
"Although mutual information (MI) has been proposed for some time as a measure of the dependence between the class variable and pattern recognition features, it is only recently that the practical problems of designing computer programs to use MI have been raised. Within the two-class context, this paper compares two traditional approaches to the requisite entropy estimation (using the maximum likelihood and expected value estimators of class probabilities) with a new estimator: the expected value of binomial entropy (E). The latter is shown to be superior where one class has a priori dominance. E is also related to expected probability of error and, in a surprising result, it is shown that E is a better estimator of class probabilities than the maximum likelihood and expected value estimators over a wide range."
"The problem of solving a system of linear inequalities is central to pattern classification where a solution to the system, consistent or not, is required. In this paper, an algorithm is developed using the method of conjugate gradients for function minimization. Specifically, it is shown that the algorithm converges to a solution in both the consistent and inconsistent cases in a finite number of steps: this is the main result. A related criterion function which has significance in pattern classification problems is derived and a variant of the algorithm to minimize the same is given along with computationally convenient modifications. A linear minimization algorithm which makes complete use of the problem structure is given: this is a part of the main algorithm. Computer simulation results for switching problems are presented and the algorithm is compared with Ho–Kashyap and accelerated relaxation algorithms; the results show that the proposed algorithm is faster than the latter algorithms with respect to both the number of iterations and time for convergence."
"This paper presents a new computerized technique to aid the designers of pattern classifiers when the measurement variables are discrete and the values form a simple nominal scale (no inherent metric). A theory of \"prime events\" which applies to patterns with measurements of this type is presented. A procedure for applying the theory of \"prime events\" and an analysis of the \"prime event estimates\" is given. To manifest additional characteristics of this technique, an example optical character recognition (OCR) application is discussed."
"A method for the balancing of binary search trees on a highly parallel computer is described. This method can be adapted for execution on a multiprocessor computer system."
"It is shown that an analog associative memory with optimal selectivity can be formed in adaptive processes which use learning algorithms related to the gradient method. The information is distributed throughout the memory by a matrix transform."
"Two simple heuristic algorithms for piecewise-linear approximation of functions of one variable are described. Both use a limit on the absolute value of error and strive to minimize the number of approximating segnents subject to the error limit. The first algorithm is faster and gives satisfactory results for sufficiently smooth functions. The second algorithm is not as fast but gives better approximations for less well-behaved functions. The two algorithms are ilustrated by several examples."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The local adjunct languages (LAL's) and grammars have been defined so as to characterize many aspects of natural and programming languages."
"A method has been investigated for the synthesis of memoryless logical networks using a restricted repertoire of functional modules. The method is based on the reduced general solution to a generalized system of Boolean equations (BE) as applied to the decomposition of Boolean functions. The aim of the synthesis is to obtain the most constrained circuit having at most two levels of gating. The constraints take the form of single input variables or constant logic levels applied to the inputs of the first level gate. This is achieved by assembling a set of constraint equations which are then a part of the generalized system of BE. The method is then tested on some synthesis examples of single and multiple output functions in terms of the NAND and (WOS) modules."
"This paper describes an algorithm that is suitable for fast implementations of nonrecursive and recursive digital filters. High speed is realized at the expense of memory; however, the memory-speed tradeoff is flexible so that many hardware and software implementations are practical. When memory is not limited, the time required to compute a filter output value is independent of the order of the filter."
"Recursive restoration of two-dimensional noisy images gives dimensionality problems leading to large storage and computation time requirements on a digital computer. This paper shows a two-dimensional second-order Markov process representation can be used for fast recursive restoration of images with small storage requirements. Advantages of this method over existing techniques are illustrated by means of examples."
"A generalized DeMorgan's theorem is presented that can be applied to Boolean equations with any number of complementations. The known form of the DeMorgan's theorem is a special case of the generalized theorem with one inversion. This new theorem simplifies and generalizes the transformation of Boolean functions to their equivalent sum of product forms."
"The effectiveness of various forms of contextual information in a postprocessing system for detection and correction of errors in words is examined. Various algorithms utilizing context are considered, from a dictionary algorithm which has available the maximum amount of information, to a set of contextual algorithms utilizing positional binary n-gram statistics. The latter information differs from the usual n-gram letter statistics in that the probabilities are position-dependent and each is quantized to 1 or 0, depending upon whether or not it is nonzero. This type of information is extremely compact and the computation for error correction is orders of magnitude less than that required by the dictionary algorithm."
"A logic designer may inadvertently select the design equations in such a way that stable states other than those of the flow table are formed. During malfunctions, it is possible for the circuit to assume a set of stable states that are not members of the original flow table, causing improper action. In some cases, it is impossible for the circuit to reassume the stable states of the flow table, creating a \"critical situation.\" A safe circuit is one that is free of the critical situation."
"This paper considers a state assignment which permits one to obtain two different realizations of a sequential machine (sm). First, as a result of this assignment we obtain a double shift-register realization of an sm by means of p pairs of shift-registers, each pair of registers having the same number of stages ai(i = 1,...,p). Such realizations are called multiple-variable-length-shift-register-realizations (MVL-SRR's). Second, this state assignment permits us to obtain multimodule type iterative realizations made by means of p different module types, each of them being copied aitimes (i = l,...,p). We call these realizations multiple-variable-length-iterative-realizations (MVL-IR's). Thus any MVL-SRR or MVL-IR is uniquely specified by γp, = (a1,...,ap,)."
"The necessary and sufficient conditions for the linear realizability of a sequential machine are stated. The discussion considers the state transition and output functions separately and thus machines with nonlinear output function can also be tested for linearity of the state transition function. It then goes on to determine the characterizing matrices and corresponding secondary state assignment when such realization exists. The method can be applied to both permutation and nonpermutation machines."
"Pattern recognition is considered as a mapping from the set of all inputs to the numbers 0 to 1. The inputs are treated as vectors. A topological group algebra over the vector space is described. The input is treated as avariable in a polynomial of that group algebra. A correspondence between inputs and numbers is established. This correspondence is used to prove that the polynomials in the algebra can represent a solution to any pattern recognition problem. When the coefficients of the polynomial are suitably chosen vectors, the natural topology of the input vector space is preserved. The importance of this approach as a basis for a completely general efficient parallel process, and practically realizable pattern recognizing machine is presented. The concept may be realized by a modular parallel process type of machinery."
"This correspondence provides theorems for the existence of a nontrivial closed parition on the state set of a sequential machine and offers an efficient and systematic method for generating all such partitions. The method is based on the concept of the implication or closure dependence relation among some subsets of the state set."
"A generalized pipeline cellular array has been proposed which can perform all the basic operations such as multiplication, division, squaring, and square rooting. The different modes of operation are controlled by a single control line. An expression for time delay has been obtained. Further, it has been shown that these arithmetic operations can be overlapped in the pipe in any desired sequence, and thus significant speed improvement can be achieved. The array is fully iterative and hence is suitable for large-scale integration (LSI)."
"Most of the work done so far on recognition of handwritten script uses curve tracing techniques. The present paper describes a recognition scheme which is independent of the dynamics of writing and is suitable both for on-line and off-line systems. New recognition criteria, namely, the distribution of intensity of marking along and perpendicular to the direction of writing are used. Methods for correcting the inclination of script, determination of zonal limits and segmentation of the continuous script into a set of curve elements have been developed. The method of correlation is used for classification of the curve-elements. A simple grammer for the reconstruction of letters from classified segments is presented. A significant recognition has been found."
"Numerous schemes are available for feature selection in a pattern recognition problem, but the feature extraction process is largely intuitive. A sequential feature extraction scheme is proposed for binary features. A decision function, which is linear and near optimal, is developed concurrently with each feature. Performance bounds are developed for several design strategies. Experimental results are given to illustrate the use of the scheme and the effectiveness of the performance bounds."
"A clipped Gaussian binary noise source is approximated by a source of independent time intervals with arbitrary distribution. The effects of a divider on this source are examined and the resulting Laplace transforms solved for a particular spectrum and a modulo-2 divider."
"A new technique to modify any logic network to facilitate diagnosis is given. By providing extra controllable inputs (at most six) and observable outputs it is shown that any number of stuck-at-faults in a logic network can be detected by applying only three tests. This number is believed to be minimal for networks using current technologies. Example of logic module that can be used to realize any logic function such that only two tests detect stuck-at-faults is also given."
"Computer Science bears approximately the same relationship to computers as Aerodynamics bears to sailboats. It describes how they work but has little impact on their design which is based almost entirely on intuition strengthened and controlled by experience. However, one day, the Wright brothers of the \"ultra-computer\" will get to their Kitty Hawk and Computer Science will come into its own. In preparation for that day stands the present volume. It is an excellent mathematics textbook written by an experienced teacher."
"Lest the readers of this review be misled by the title of the book being considered, it is not a definitive text on the subject of program testing. Nor is it a catalogue of existing, known, and practical techniques for program testing from which the interested reader may choose an appropriate one for the validation of some particular program."
"This book is intended (author's preface) as a suitable text for course B2 of Association for Computing Machinery Curriculum 1968 Recommendations. In general, the level of presentation is consistent with that intent. However, the book does not contain adequate material on all of the topics suggested in B2. For instance, micro-programming is very briefly discussed in three pages, and only two descriptive pages are provided on macros. There is also not enough discussion of selected programming techniques such as sorting, searching, scanning, text editing, arithmetic expression recognition, syntatic recognition, etc."
"This book surveys five areas of current interest to computer scientists: formal language theory, computational complexity, program schemas, tree automata, and compiler design theory. Several of the papers in this monograph were given at a session entitled, \"An Overview of Theoretical Computer Science,\" at the Fourth Annual Princeton Conference on Information Sciences and Systems."
"One important area in engineering cybernetics is that of learning systems—the analysis and synthesis of engineering systems which exhibit learning behavior. During the past decade there has been a considerable growth of research interest in problems of learning systems. Many different approaches have been proposed for the design of systems with learning capabilities. Engineering applications include pattern recognition, communication and antenna systems, and control and diagnostic problems. Recent progress has indicated that the research in learning systems has just gone through a transient period from discussions of general philosophy, concepts and formulations of the problem to studies of a possible unified theory. This progress is significant in the sense that, once a unified approach is successful, further research efforts can then be concentrated toward the depth of the theory and its applications. One of the major contributors in this direction is Prof. Tsypkin, the author of this book. Under a general approach of probabilistic iterative algorithms or stochastic approximation procedures, this book treats systematically a broad class of problems in learning systems. Many existing learning algorithms can be put under this same general formulation, and these are compared."
"This book is intended to be a text on signals and systems for senior or first-year graduate electrical engineering courses. The text covers a wide range of subjects so that it may be used for a one or two semester course."
"This book is very practically oriented. Implementations and methods for a wide range of digital design problems are presented. Simplifying assumptions of theoretic approaches are discussed, although the classical theoretical approaches are not always developed. If a reader comes to this book with some appreciation of the theoretic approaches, it may provide much insight into the practical problems of design, as well as provide a reference for many alternative approaches to digital design problems."
"Topics Covered: The coverage in this book is wide, ranging from channel programming, through the operation of the vacuum column in a magnetic tape unit, to how a verifier operator can cheat! More specifically, there are chapters on the following subjects: the channel; I/O software;punch card (on and off-line) devices and the integrated control unit;IBM 1403 printers;magnetism and magnetic recording; IBM 2400 series magnetic tape units and their controllers; direct access storage devices; the IBM 2311 disk drive; the IBM 2841 disk storage controller; the IBM 2321 data cell; the IBM 2314 disk system; the IBM 2303 head per track drum; and the IBM 1052 inquiry console. Both hardware and software aspects of these topics are covered, at a level similar to that in the descriptive parts of the manufacturer's manuals. Quantitative information on byte storage capacities is given."
"This book consists of three self-pacing programmed instruction courses: Introduction to Computer Systems and Programming Languages, Fortran, and Algol. The courses consist of brief (typically, 1 page) instructional exposition followed by questions and answers (1 frame). The introductory unit is 21 pages (25 frames) long and assumes no particular background on the part of the reader."
 "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Some open problems in the theory of cellular automata are considered: the tradeoff between machine complexity and interconnection complexity, linear time pattern recognition and transformation problems, and the noncomputability of the constant of linearity of linear time problems."
"Transients in combinational circuits are approached through an analysis of the transition process in a pure delay circuit model that completely separates delay from structure and logic. During any transition, only monotonically increasing sequences of transient input vertices can occur because no transient input variable can change more than once. This restriction to the shortest trajectories through the transition subcube yields a common criterion for all types of hazards in feedback-free combinational circuits: a transition is hazard-free iff the transient switching function is unate in the transition subcube with respect to the initial and final vertices."
"The purpose of this paper is to propose an algebraic model of logical circuits which has been designed to build up efficient analysis and simulation procedures."
"Sequential decision algorithms with on-line feature ordering and a limited look-ahead approximation are considered. The algorithms can be used with or without contextual constraints for multicategory pattern recognition problems. Computational complexity due to on-line ordering of features is analyzed and related to system performance. Computer simulated results are obtained using a standard data set (Munson's multiauthor handprinted character files) and a careful test procedure."
"The so-called table look-up classification procedure and a modification of it are discussed. These and several other classification techniques are evaluated and simulation results comparing some of the techniques are displayed. Indications are that the table look-up technique is quite useful in classifying large sets of data, such as in remote sensing data analysis."
"Random occurrences of three types of errors in the input to a finite automaton are considered: an α error is a deletion of one symbol from the input string; a β error is an insertion of one extra symbol; and a δ error is a change of one symbol into another symbol. A method using operators for determining regular expressions defining error-corrupted strings is developed and is employed in the construction of a finite automaton, the outputs of which are stochastically generated by Bayes' Rule (with certain approximations) to take into account the frequencies with which strings appear as inputs and the probabilities of errors."
"The nature of probability-measure languages (pm-languages) has been investigated [2], [3], [7], [8], in particular, those languages generated by given probabilistic grammars (p-grammars). However, the determination of a p-grammar that can generate some given language has been an open question. Since languages are infinite in general, the specification of a pm-language is vague. In this paper, it is assumed that some finite representation exists for the set of words (this can be a nonprobabilistic grammar) and that the probability of each word in the language is computable by some word function whose domain is the language."
"The work of software cost forecasting falls into two parts. First we make what we call structural forecasts, and then we calculate the absolute dollar-volume forecasts. Structural forecasts describe the technology and function of a software project, but not its size. We allocate resources (costs) over the project's life cycle from the structural forecasts. Judgment, technical knowledge, and econometric research should combine in making the structural forecasts. A methodology based on a 25 X 7 structural forecast matrix that has been used by TRW with good results over the past few years is presented in this paper. With the structural forecast in hand, we go on to calculate the absolute dollar-volume forecasts. The general logic followed in \"absolute\" cost estimating can be based on either a mental process or an explicit algorithm. A cost estimating algorithm is presented and five tradition methods of software cost forecasting are described: top-down estimating, similarities and differences estimating, ratio estimating, standards estimating, and bottom-up estimating. All forecasting methods suffer from the need for a valid cost data base for many estimating situations. Software information elements that experience has shown to be useful in establishing such a data base are given in the body of the paper. Major pricing pitfalls are identified. Two case studies are presented that illustrate the software cost forecasting methodology and historical results. Topics for further work and study are suggested."
"This correspondence gives a method which generates prime implicants in a simple one-pass procedure. Starting from the lowest (or highest) points in the function lattice, it generates successive subcubes in a unique sequence. Each subcube is formed only once."
"Reflected binary (RB) code words plus an even parity check can be considered as signed digit (SD) representations of the corresponding natural binary (NB) code words. The SD code words allow a simple serial conversion with the least significant bit leading of their digits forming the RB code words into the NB code words."
"After an overview of the cellular logic image processor, CLIP 3, parallel algorithms for joining two points are described. These real time algorithms are simple, work properly, preserve the connectivity, are based only on logic, and show much of the behavior of processing occurring in sensory elements of animals."
"By contradictory example, the method proposed by Bubenik for selecting \"an irredundant set of prime implicants\" is shown to lack generality."
"This book is vol. 13 in a series of 16 state-of-the-art reports put out by Infotech. The book, as in the other Infotech reports that have been reviewed [1]-[3], appears to be more like the proceedings of a conference. The report is definitely not meant to be an introduction to minicomputers. Consequently, the novice student or unfamiliar engineer would be better off using the publication as a reference after he has become conversant in the field."
 "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"FAULT-TOLERANT computing has been defined as \"the ability to execute specified algorithms correctly regardless of hardware failures, total system flows, or program fallacies\" [1]. This definition of fault-tolerant computing leads directly to three major subdivisions [2]:"
"A general design technique for achieving single fault-tolerant asynchronous sequential circuits is described. The design procedures apply over a large range of fault conditions and are extremely easy to use. Generally, less than three times the logic required for a single copy is needed to achieve single fault tolerance. In addition to fault tolerance, real time fault detection is easily achieved and it is immediately known when single fault tolerant capability is exceeded."
"A new class of circuits called \"partially self-checking circuits\" is described. These circuits have one mode of operation called secure mode in which every fault is tested in normal operation and no fault can cause an undetected error. They also have an insecure mode of operation in which undetected errors can occur; however, every fault that can cause an error in insecure mode is tested by some input in secure mode. One application of these circuits is in the arithmetic and logic unit (ALU) of a computer with data encoded in an error-detecting code. While there is no code simpler than duplication which detects single errors in logical operations such as AND and OR, it is shown that there exist partially self-checking networks to perform these operations. A commercially available medium-scale integration (MSI) chip, the 74181 4-bit ALU, can be used in a partially self-checking network to perform arithmetic and logical operations."
"The technique of hybrid redundancy has been used to protect those portions of a digital system which have to be made ultrareliable. Siewiorek and McCluskey have presented a new switch design for hybrid redundancy which is shown to be of less complexity than other switch designs presented in the literature."
"There are several instances where the classical method of triple-modular redundancy (TMR) reliability modeling may provide predictions which are inadequate. It is shown that for even simple networks such as those exhibiting fan-in and fan-out, classical methods may predict a reliability that is higher than or lower than the actual reliability. Furthermore, the classical method gives no hint as to whether the predicted number is high or low. As a solution to this problem, a method of partitioning an arbitrary network into cells such that faults in a cell are independent of faults in other cells is proposed. An algorithm is then given to calculate the reliability of any such cell, by considering only the structure of the interconnections within the cells. The value of the reliability found is exact if TMR is assumed to be a coherent system. An approximation to the algorithm is also described; this can be used to find a lower bound to the reliability without extensive calculation."
"A memory organization is considered for which a large number of faults can be tolerated at a low cost in redundancy. The primitive element in the memory is a large-scale integrated (LSI) chip that realizes a section of memory, b bits wide by y words long, together with an address decoder for the y words. The chips (including spares) are connected via a switching network so that the memory can be reconfigured effectively in the presence of chip failures. The main results of the paper relating to the switching network are as follows."
"A method is presented for converting problems in fault diagnosis into ones involving coloring (labeling) the nodes of a graph. It is shown that many concepts and results of graph theory have direct counterparts in fault diagnosis. Specific fault diagnosis problems examined include exercising tests, fanout free networks, test point insertion, sensitized paths, and fault test generation. A number of examples are included."
"Intermittent faults are those faults whose effects on the behavior of a system are present only part of the time. A probabilistic model for intermittent faults in digital circuits is suggested. A procedure for the detection of such faults in combinational circuits is proposed. The procedure employs the repeated application of tests that test for these faults as if their effects were permanent. The procedure is analogous to a sequential statistical decision problem. Least upper bounds on the number of repetitions of tests that detect a particular fault are derived. These bounds are then employed in designing optimum detection experiments. Such an optimization problem is found to be equivalent to an integer programming problem."
"The commonly used stuck-at fault fails to model logic circuit shorts. Bridging faults are defined to model these circuit mal-functions. This model is based on wired logic which is a characteristic of many logic families such as resistor-transistor logic (RTL), diode transistor logic (DTL), emitter-coupled logic (ECL), etc. It does not apply to TTL circuits. The model also limits to fan-out-free leads."
"The problem of selecting test points to reduce the number of tests for fault detection in combinational logic networks is examined. A method is presented for labeling the lines of a network. Procedures are described for obtaining a minimal labeling, i.e., one corresponding to a minimal set of tests, for fanout-free circuits and for a restricted class of circuits with fanout. Using these procedures, a branch-and-bound algorithm is developed for selecting an optimal (or near-optimal) set of q test points in fanout-free networks. Some difficulties associated with test point placement in general networks are pointed out. It is shown that the labeling approach is also applicable to the problem of selecting and placing control logic."
"The problem of the realization of fail-safe asynchronous sequential circuits was recently studied by Patterson and Sawin. This correspondence presents a different approach to the same subject which, in some cases, yield us simpler realization than those by the methods ever proposed, combining the notion of the ordered partition with Tracey's method for the state assignment of asynchronous sequential circuit."
"This correspondence presents a reliability model for a redundant flight computer system with. standby sparing, taking into account various mission abort strategies. A mission rule to initiate a mission abort after a predetermined number of detected computer failures and to return to earth with the remaining computers is shown to result in: 1) little improvement of crew safety unless computer error coverage is nearly perfect, and 2) significant degradation in mission success whenever coverage is high."
"A generalized test function (GTF) is derived that gives all tests for a multiple stuck-at fault in a combinational logic circuit. The GTF is then used as the basis for an examination of several algebraic test generation methods that have appeared in the literature. Deficiencies are found in some methods."
"Most work on diagnosis of digital circuits has concentrated on the model of stuck-type faults. Although these faults are probably the most important class of faults, other types of faults do occur in practice and the occurrence of these other faults may affect the diagnosis of stuck-type faults. In this correspondence we consider the problems associated with detection of two other fault models, shorted diode and input Bridge faults, both corresponding to shorts. We present procedures for generating tests for stuck-type faults which also detect these other faults if they are detectable. Unlike stuck-type faults, the presence of undetectable short-circuit faults does not imply that the circuit can be simplified by removing inputs or gates. Undetectability of short-type faults corresponds to the ability to move fan-out points from an input to an output of a gate without changing the function realized by the circuit. Elimination of this type of redundancy does not necessarily lead to a simplified circuit."
 "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "Microprogramming is a rapidly emerging technology for the implementation of the control section of modem digital processing systems. An assessment was made of this approach to control unit design three years ago in a series of papers derived from the Third Annual Workshop on Microprogramming and published as a special issue of this TRANSACTIONS. This technology has matured in the ensuing three years, and an updated assessment has been prepared again as a special issue of this TRANSACTIONS based upon the papers presented at the Sixth Annual Workshop. The extent of realization of past predictions is reviewed and current trends are discussed. Finally, an attempt is made to assess future developments that may be expected to occur in the applications of microprogramming."
"Several methods of evaluating user programs are analyzed with respect to space and time requirements. The concept of an \"ideal\" directly executed language is introduced and it is argued that the \"ideal\" directly executed language for a contemporary computing system will not be either its source language or the language accepted by its base machine."
"Current architecture for microprogrammable machines vary widely. In order to avoid the applicability of the testing technique to a particular machine example, hardware, microware and microprograms are represented in a general fashion. This representation will account for a composite of features common to a large variety of contemporary machines. Such a general description seems to be absolutely necessary, when a comparison of two microprograms executing on different machines has to be made. After defining the model, correctness and equivalence of loopfree microprograms will be defined. The testing techniques are then developed. In the Appendix are shown two examples of straight line microprograms (for simplicity), to which the developed model is applied."
"Microprogrammed computers are categorized by main memory/control storage (CS) organization for use in analysis of methods of allowing dynamic user microprogramming. A system design is described in which user microroutines are executed directly from main memory, rather than from writable control storage (WCS). This design is analyzed and compared with the use of WCS for allowing dynamic user microprogramming in a multiprogramming system. It is shown that the use of main memory for microprogram residence is a viable alternative in many user job environments."
"A high-level language, SIMPL (Single Identity MicroProgramming), for horizontal microprogramming has been developed. This language allows the SIMPL compiler to easily detect concurrent microoperations and to optimize their intricate timing and concurrency for generating highly parallel and efficient object microprograms in horizontal formats. This unique feature accrues from the single assignment concept for multiprocessing languages that was adapted to the design of SIMPL."
"This paper describes an algorithm for the synthesis of applications-oriented microcode for a dynamically microprogrammable computer. The synthesis algorithm provides an iterative method for generating specialized architectures. Current attempts at generating specialized architectures can be considered as manual tuning due to human generation of specialized microcode. Heuristic instruction synthesis is described as one phase of a heuristic tuning process which attempts to automate the manual tuning process."
"This paper provides a summary of the design features of a microprogram controlled high speed signal processor referred to as an analyzer unit (AU). It provides an overview of the interrelationship between processing requirements, a language structure in which these requirements can be efficiently programmed, and an AU design that can efficiently execute the processing requirements. Particular emphasis is placed on the microprogram structure of the system computational unit, the Arithmetic Processor."
"The concept of microprogramming has been changing with the development of hardware technology to facilitate dynamic microprogramming and the development of software technology to facilitate user microprogramming. An examination of the status of microprogramming systems leads to a discussion of the design and implementation characteristics for both the hardware and software aspects of microprogramming. The concept of microprogrammability is introduced to measure the facility with which a user can microprogram a machine. Discussing and evaluating contemporary machines and software that have been developed to effect user microprogramming reveals a variety of designs and implementations but also indicates directions for future research and development. Describing some of the contemporary applications of microprogramming indicates the potential for exploiting microprogramming in many areas. A comprehensive list of references serves as a guide to details of microprogramming concepts and recent developments."
"The efficient utilization of a two-level directly executable memory system is investigated. After defining the time and space product resulting from static allocation of the most often referenced pages, from paging, and from an optimal algorithm when the amount of primary memory is constrained, we introduce a learning algorithm. Its basic feature is to monitor references in such a way that it prevents seldom accessed pages to be brought into primary memory. The additional hardware requirements are not extensive. Simulations attest to the validity of the concept, and show that results are comparable with those obtained from the static allocation (the latter being impractical since it requires the knowledge of the whole reference stream) and superior to those obtained with paging. In the case of application programs, contributions to the learning algorithm can be made at compile time. Algorithms and data stuctures necessitated in an optimizing phase of the compiler are described."
"The problem of how to determine minimal sets of tests for single and multiple faults in irredundant combinational circuits is dealt with. It is shown that the \"Equivalent Sum of Products\" form of the given network contains all the information necessary to derive a min; mal test set. A simple procedure which generates a minimal test set Ts for single faults is described. Fault masking is then studied and it is shown how to find the multiple faults undetected by Ts. Finally a method which derives a nearly minimal multiple fault test set Tm where Ts [mi][/mi] Tm is given."
"Piecewise approximation is described as a way of feature extraction, data compaction, and noise filtering of boundaries of regions of pictures and waveforms. A new fast algorithm is proposed which allows for a variable number of segments. After an arbitrary initial choice, segments are split or merged in order to drive the error norm under a prespecified bound. Results of computer experiments with cell outlines and electrocardiograms are reported."
"Two finite automata are devised for modeling two classes of demand paging algorithms. The first one of one input and three outputs models the class of algorithms with a constant amount of allocated space. The second one of one input and six outputs models the class of algorithms with a variable amount of allocated space. Some evaluation techniques are developed following each model. The memory states of the first class algorithm with the Least Recently Used (LRU) replacement policy and the working set model of the second class are recursively defined by strings of the loaded pages. The adopted replacement policy and the state string updating procedure are imbedded in the recursive definition of memory states. Properties of some algorithms are developed to fit the finiteness assumption of a reference string."
"A new concept, called distinguishing set or D-set is presented. Its use yields a considerable reduction in the length of checking sequences. Arbitrarily chosen examples have indicated a reduction of 30-50 percent. It is shown that the sequences of a distinguishing set actually constitute the optimum, i.e., minimum length, for state identification through input-output observations only."
"During the last decade there has been considerable research activity devoted to the study of systems which could be modeled as networks. Whereas the subject of such research has ranged from network flows, reliable networks, electrical network theory, etc., most of the books that have appeared on the subject tend to emphsize either integer programming and network flows [1], or graph theory and its applications in electrical engineering [2]-[3]. As the title of the book suggests the authors, who are prolific contributors in the field, have taken a different approach. They have attempted to develop the theory of networks by organizing the book around the classes of physical problems rather than the techniques used to solve them."
"Like many if not all of the previous infotech State of the Art Reports this volume derives a large part of its content from presentations made at a \"State of the Art Lecture.\" Although the participants are identified, the time, place or sponsorship of the conference are not. Even though the conference itself may appear contrived, the credentials of the lecturers definitely are not, for they include many of the leading contributors to recent data base management technology."
"According to the authors this book treats \"the most important formal methods that have been applied to the study of operating systems algorithms.\" The emphasis of the book is on the mathematical analysis of models of computing systems, which means that there are several important methods and concepts in the theory of operating systems that are not treated. However, the book is the first serious attempt in this area and is a valuable addition to the reference and text books in computer science."
 "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An algorithm for the analysis of multivariate data is presented and is discussed in terms of specific examples. The algorithm seeks to find one-and two-dimensional linear projections of multivariate data that are relatively highly revealing."
"A very fast nongradient procedure for function optimization is described. The procedure is based on the ideas of Rosenbrock [1] and Swann [2]. These were modified and refined to obtain an algorithm which provides an optimum with a very small number of function evaluations. This algorithm, compared with recently reported algorithms by Lawrence and Steglitz (L-S) [3], and Beltrami and Indusi (B-I) [4], appears to be very robust and reliable. Constrained optimization problems can be handled and a special method for handling optimization with linear constraints is presented."
"The design methodology developed in the paper is based on an APL-like definition of logical arrays and operations on such arrays. First, the notion of a logical algorithm is introduced as a finite state automaton described by transition and output matrix. The technical realizations of such algorithms is then uniformly described as time-discrete, space-discrete, and time-space-discrete systems, and the transition of an algorithm from state-to-state (or space node-to-space node) can be explicitly formulated in a very concise way. An application of this formalism to the state reduction problem is shown. Thus the paper extends the APL-based design of logical networks beyond the area of combinational networks as developed first by Iverson."
"The Lee path connection algorithm is probably the most widely used method for finding wire paths on printed circuit boards. It is shown that the original claim of generality for the path cost function is incorrect, and a restriction, called the pathconsistency property, is introduced. The Lee algorithm holds for those path cost functions having this property. Codings for the cells of the grid are proposed which will allow the correct operation of the algorithm under the most general path cost function, using the minimum number of states possible, six states per cell. Then methods for reducing the number of calculations by increasing the number of states are presented."
"The arithmetic error detecting and correcting capabilities of product (AN) codes in residue number systems (RNS) are described. The redundancy necessary and sufficient to allow single residue digit error detection or correction is determined, under the hypothesis that the error affects either an arbitrary legitimate number or a number in overflow. It is shown that single-bit errors are also correctable, provided that the residue digits are conveniently encoded. Two different approaches to this problem are discussed. Simple procedures for error detection and correction are presented, and it is shown that the additive overflow detection is a by-product of such procedures. Proofs and examples are given."
"Several algorithms have been proposed for generating satisfactory state assignments for normal fundamental mode asynchronous sequential circuits. Programmed versions of minimal and near-minimal techniques have been incorporated in automated synthesis systems, but are known to require computational efforts which increase exponentially with flow table size. Other methods, requiring much less effort, produce assignments with far more state variables than minimal assigments."
"In this paper mathematical models for digital integrators operating with multidigit increments are given, and the discretization error analysis of their linear connections is studied. The integration methods considered are linear multistep integration methods; some examples are studied in detail. Linear digital differential analyzer (DDA) connections are defined, and their use in connection with the numerical solution of the initial value problem is explained. Finally, the discretization error in these linear DDA connections has been analyzed in detail; the theoretical results have also been verified experimentally."
"The concept of a two-dimensional recursive digital filter is introduced and block diagram representations are given. Expressions for error bounds and mean-square, error for roundoff error accumulation are derived. Other sources of error are described. Simulation of the implementation of digital filters is discussed, and corresponding to this simulation, calculation of error is performed. Numerical examples are given. The derived analytic results are shown to be in good agreement with the simulation results."
"Two procedures are presented: one for diagnosis of single-gate failures and the other for deriving equivalence classes of single faults. Both procedures require use of a diagnostic table which lists gate sensitivities and primary output values for all input patterns in a set of tests which contains at most U tests, where U is an upper bound derived in the text. A gate is defined to be an n-input single-output combinational circuit (n ≥ 1) and a failure is any detectable transformation of the correct gate function. The information contained in a diagnostic table can be used to locate a faulty gate and describe its failed function. Equivalence classes are derived from a diagnostic table by first specifying the primary output values in accordance with a theorem given in the text and then deriving the corresponding gate functions. Examples are given to illustrate both the procedures."
"Any basis function of a generalized Fourier series takes on many values in an interval. In contrast, the binary nature of the basis functions of Walsh-Fourier series (WFS) allows them to be considered self-reciprocal1 except for a finite number of discontinuities. Hence, quotients of linear combinations of Walsh functions may be used to generate series representations of reciprocals of periodic functions. Thus the usual summation techniques employed to evaluate series representations of nonsquare-integrable periodic functions may, in some instances, be circumvented."
"Characteristic polynomials are here generated for a class of eigenvalue problems using the singularity condition previously encountered in the solution of corresponding forced system. The process is efficient and requires n2/2 operations in contrast to n3 operations required by techniques such as the Leverrier-Faddeev method."
"A method for transposing large matrices stored on external storage devices allowing direct access is proposed. The method can be applied both to square and nonsquare matrices and it is particularly suitable when the number of rows and columns of the matrices are products of many factors."
"Context may be introduced into a character-recognition system by accepting only classifications of a character which are consistent with the classifications of neighboring characters. Diagnostic keys are proposed as an efficient representation for this type of contextual information."
"This correspondence describes a special purpose Asynchronous Circuit Design Language (ACDL) for specifying the terminal behavior of asynchronous sequential circuits. The language is a valuable tool for formalizing and documenting asynchronous designs, as well as providing a user interface to a completely automated synthesis system. The language includes many special features which permit quick and precise specification of terminal behavior and is best suited for problems that are currently being described informally by word statements."
"Each discrete transform has its advantages over other transforms. Fourier domain filters are easier to design than Walsh domain filters. But Walsh transforms can be computed much faster than Fourier transforms. This paper considers the problem of designing a Walsh domain filter, given a Fourier domain filter. Same procedure can be applied to other transforms. Given a Slant filter its equivalent Fourier filter or Walsh ifiter can be found."
"A divide-and-correct algorithm is described for multiple-precision division in the negative base number system. In this algorithm an initial quotient estimate is obtained from suitable segmented operands; this is then corrected by simple rules to arrive at the true quotient."
"This correspondence presents the remainder-quotient (RQ)-algorithm for the resolution of Boolean equations. If [mi]w = w ( xkl, xj2, ... XkN) = 1[/mi] is the Boolean equation equivalent to the system whose solution is desired, we want to determine the Boolean functions [mi]xk, = Xkp ( xhj+1,... -xkN)[/mi] with p = 1,2,... j, which verify the equivalent equation. We start with the function w given by its minterm numbers and performing usual divisions we determine the solutions in the domain of the numerical transform (NT), introduced in a previous paper. An alternative way is also presented, which is advantageous when the number of minterms in the equivalent equation is large. Examples which show the great systematization of the methods are given."
"A multiplying D/A converter (MDAC) based upon the use of bipolar high precision current sources and inverted ladder networks is described. It is shown that if super-gain IC operational amplifiers are used with current sources a converter accuracy of 0.01 percent over the full temperature range can be achieved."
"In a recent note1 C. C. Babu derives an upper bound on the probability of misclassification for the case when part of the training data is incorrectly labeled. Using this notation the bound is given by"
"I thank Dr. Toussaint for his interest in my work. To answer his first point namely the validity of the upperbound, over the range of β, a better bound appears in another paper ([1, (10)])."
"The Appendix of the above paper1 presents a serial sign flipper for radix (-2). Recently, a simpler realization has been brought to the attention of the author. The improved circuit has been developed independently of the published design by H. C. Wilck of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. His approach to the problem is quite different from the author's."
"The above paper1 by Magó discusses the state assignment problem by means of monotone increasing (i.e., positive) next-state functions for both synchronous and asynchronous sequential networks. It may be interesting to note that the same subject for synchronous sequential networks has also been studied under a somewhat different title: \"Fail-Safe Realization of Sequential Machines.\" This is because a realization with positive next-state functions (and positive output functions) results in a fail-safe sequential circuit in a certain sense."
"As APL (A Programming Language) attains its place as one of the widely used programming languages one welcomes a commensurate increase in the number of publications detailing its use and expanding the base from which to gain knowledge."
"This book is an introduction to the design of digital systems. It is intended as a one semester course for electrical engineering or computer science students and assumes only a minimal background in programming, binary numbers, and Boolean algebra. The intended level of the course is never mentioned. The major goal of the book is to \"....involve the student in the design process...\". The vehicle for this involvement is a register transfer (RT) language. Statements in the language are shown to be readily translated into hardware. Thus once the RT language description is formulated the hardware design is essentially complete. Also, as a matter of course specific systems are designed in the RT language before generalizations are made. Unfortunately the RT language and the specific to general approach (both of which the reviewer views as good techniques) lead to the major weaknesses of the book."
 "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This standard applies to all types of line-commutated semiconductor power converters employing monocrystalline semiconductor thyristors or diodes, as used in industrial motor-drive applications requiring adjustable direct voltage for dc motor armature or field, or adjustable voltage and frequency in the case of ac motor drives (cycloconverter). It covers thyristor converter circuits, general requirements, test procedures, general recommendations for loading and operating converter units, and thyristor converter transformers. Although written primarily around the requirements of motor drives needing sufficient power to utilize multiphase power converters, this standard is applicable with reasonable interpretation to all line-commutated power converters used in industrial motor-drive applications."
"This specification defines the requirements for a single-degree-of-freedom rate-integrating gyro to be used as a sensor in systems such as an attitude control system, a gimbal platform, an angular displacement measuring system, or an angular rate measuring system. The external electronics or control system are not considered to be part of the gyro.<<ETX>>"
"Superseded by 43-2000. Insulation resistance characteristics of rotating-machine windings and the manner in which these characteristics may serve to indicate the condition of the winding are described. The recommended procedure for the measurement of insulation resistance of windings of rotating machines rated 1 hp, 1 kW or greater is presented. The recommended minimum value of insulation resistance of alternating-current and direct-current rotating-machine windings is given. Synchronous machines, induction machines, direct-current machines, and synchronous converters are covered, as well as armature windings and field windings. Fractional-horsepower machines are not included."
"A uniform method by which the thermal endurance of electrical insulation systems for dry-type specialty and general-purpose transformers can be compared is established. These insulation systems are intended for use in the types of transformers described in NEMA ST 1-1988 and NEMA ST 20-1992."
"Directions for establishing type tests that may be used in qualifying Class 1E electric cables, field splices, and other connections for service in nuclear power generating stations are provided. Though intended primarily for cable for field installation, this guide may also be used for the qualification of internal wiring of manufactured devices. It does not cover cables for service within the reactor vessel."
"This document provides a uniform method of VLF testing in order to obtain consistent results, accumulate meaningful experience, and lead to establishment of standards of test level. The purposes of this recommended practice are: (1) to define terms that have a specific meaning in VLF testing; (2) to describe VLF-test equipment and wave shape; (3) to provide a uniform procedure for testing the armature insulation of large AC machines with VLF voltage; (4) to recommend constants for relating VLF tests to power-frequency and direct-voltage tests to obtain equally effective test levels. The document applies to large AC rotating machines rated at 10000 kVA or greater and rated 6000 V or higher. It covers acceptance testing of new equipment in the factory or onsite after erection. This recommended practice also covers routine maintenance testing of machines that have been in service.<<ETX>>"
"General recommendations are provided for the operation, loading, and maintenance of hydro-generators and generator/motors (pump/turbines), having salient pole rotors and conventional cooling systems (as distinct from conductor cooling systems). The term hydro-generator refers to a generator driven by a hydraulic turbine or waterwheel. Types of units and bases of rating are included. Generators with cylindrical rotors are not covered."
"Two types of design tests for relays and relay systems that relate to the immunity of this equipment to repetitive electrical transients are specified. Test generator characteristics, test waveforms, selection of equipment terminals on which tests are to be conducted, test procedures, criteria for acceptance, and documentation of test results are described. This standard has been harmonized with IEC standards where consensus could be reached."
"Withdrawn Standard. Withdrawn Date: Sep 15, 1995. This guide is the result of a survey of radio techniques employed for measuring the conductivity of the earth. Results are applicable to the design of communication channels that are influenced by the electrical characteristics of the earth. Emphasized are those techniques used at frequencies where the loss tangent is large. The techniques are classed broadly into those that make use of drill holes into the earth and those that do not. Also, a distinction is made between active and passive methods. Comments and critiques on the various techniques are included. Theoretical and practical details underlying some of the methods are given in the appendixes."
"This IEEE standard establishes criteria for the uniform identification of documents significant to design, construction, testing, operation, and maintenance of Class 1E equipment and systems for nuclear power generating stations. It includes recommendations for identification of specific parts of these documents.<<ETX>>"
"This standard provides recommendations for the selection of instrumentation specific to the continuous monitoring and quantification of radioactivity in effluents released to the environment. The effluent streams considered may contain radioactive gases, liquids, particulates, or dissolved solids singly or in combination. This standard specifies detection capabilities, physical and operating limits, reliability, and calibration requirements and sets forth minimum performance requirements for effluent monitoring instrumentation. Unless otherwise specified, the criteria herein refer to the total system. This standard applies only to monitoring during routine operation that includes abnormal releases.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Comparison between bandwidth-limited input pictures and output pictures from current generation TV transmitters show little difference except for faint edge ringing at an approximate 1-MHz rate. This is shown to be due to lack of specification and control of transmitter and receiver lower sideband attenuation and phase characteristics in the region around 1 MHz below visual carrier. Some observed and some calculated results are presented for comparison."
"Design and performance characteristics of various types of video recording devices are compared. The relation between the two bask types (quadruplex and helical) is shown for characteristics such as signal-to-noise ratio as a function of tape speed and magnetic coercivity. It is indicated that equipment cost is more a function of desired performance than of basic type and that the high state of development and standardization of the quadruplex will assure its continued use in TV broadcast service for the foreseeable future."
"A continuous 19-kHz pilot tone is included as part of the modulation format of stereo FM broadcast radio stations. An experiment was performed which measures the stability of the received pilot in urban and rural environments. A mathematical analysis is presented of the phase stability of the received pilot as a function of multipath. It shows that phase changes will exist dependent upon a reflected radio signal's phase lag, relative amplitude, and the modulation index. Data are presented which indicate: 1) phase versus time of the pilot at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) laboratory using a directional yagi and a vertical whip; 2) Allan variance measurements of versus using a directional yagi; and 3) the day-to-day phase delay of the pilot at five urban locations and three rural locations using a vertical whip. With 5 min of averaging time, the delay of the pilot at five urban sites was reproducible to within 2s each day over a five-day period. Delay was reproducible to within 0.8s at three urban sites."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Australia is a vast island continent of approximately 3 million mi2, with a population now in excess of 13 million. Considering the last 73 years since Federation, electronics has been a major factor enabling Australia's rapid growth. This influence was there almost from the start, by providing communications to a land isolated from the rest of the world. The modern nation's dependence on electronics is all pervasive, relating to all endeavors and disciplines. In Australia, electronics has become a fundamental part of agriculture, medicine, education, business, finance, and government; as well as providing communications, navigation and entertainment. Today, one can dearly see the future for electronics in fulfilling an indispensable part of our way of life and development."
"A device has been designed and constructed to aid a blind radio station operator to cue phonograph recordings for broadcast. The device uses a hand-held detector to scan the record surface and generates a tone that changes markedly in frequency when the detector is passed over a band between selections. The use of the device allows a blind operator to work unassisted by sighted persons."
"The second-and third-order distortion buildup in a CATV repeater system is analyzed by means of the Volterra series expansion of the output signal in terms of the input signal. Expressions for cascaded distortion products are given in terms of the single amplifier distortion product and the low frequency phase intercepts of the amplifier, cable equalizer, and cable itself. From these expressions it is also seen that the low-frequency phase intercepts are the dominant factors in determining the cascaded distortion. Conditions for cancellation of either the second-or third-order distortion products are then given."
"A brief biography of Sir Lionel Hooke, Chairman of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd., is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Volterra series approach is used to derive a simplified expression relating the single channel and multichannel cross modulation in a CATV amplifier. The cross modulation from n unwanted carriers synchronously modulated is seen to be dependent upon the phase versus frequency variation of the third-order Volterra transfer function of an amplifier. Only when the phase is constant for any frequency of interest is the increase in the magnitude of the cross-modulation vector given by 20 log n, n being the number of synchronously modulated carriers."
"One might think that such a common term as signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio has only one definition, but this is unfortunately not the case. The definition depends upon what is meant by \"signal\" and what is meant by \"noise\" and these meanings determine how the measurement is made. To compare a National Cable Television Association (NCTA) S/N measurement made at VHF with an Electronics Industries Association (EIA) or International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) S/N measurement made at video baseband one must follow the vestigial sideband television signal through an ideal vestigial sideband demodulator. The resulting relationships show that there is only a small difference between the various definitions. Experimental results which back up the theoretical findings are described."
"In a nonideal transmission enviromnent, the transmission of video sound in the form of an FM subcarrier above the video baseband causes interactions between video and sound subcarrier which result in signal distortion. The degree of distortion depends on the type of channel impairments and the selection of transmission parameters. While the fidelity of the video signal can be preserved by mainly limiting the subcarrier level, the quality of the audio channel can be optimized by choosing the right subcarrier frequency. It can be shown that for a given video-carrier-to-noise ratio, subcarrier power below video signal power, and for given system impairments, there exists an optimum subcarrier location which provides a maxinum audio-signal-to-noise ratio."
"Transmission of circularly polarized signals between elevated antenna over lossy earth is discussed for a frequency of 100 MHz. By decomposing the circularly polarized signals into vertical and horizontal components and considering only direct and ground-reflected waves, it is shown that for fixed transmitting antenna height and horizontal separation, the field intensity at the receiving antenna varies sinusoidally with receiving antenna height. Reference curves of field strength versus height are included for typical tower heights, separations, and soil conditions. Comments on FCC power height curves are also included."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Accurate field intensity measurements require inclusion of the contribution of all wave polarization components. This paper presents the results of horizontal and vertical plane field strength measurements for the purpose of assessing the importance of measuring both components in routine environmental field monitoring. Results show that FM broadcast stations may have vertical plane field strengths 5 dB greater than in the horizontal plane but that VHF TV stations exhibit vertical fields typically 20 dB lower while UHF TV stations showed typically a 14 dB lower vertical field component. Based on these measurements made over a period of approximately a month, it is concluded that accurate exposure determination in the FM band requires making both vertical and horizontal field measurements."
"A method of transmitting stationary TV pictures within the bandwidth of an FM subsidiary communications authorization (SCA) subchannel and utilizing conventional cameras and monitors is discussed. Time-domain and frequency-domain representations of the compressed-video baseband signal are examined. Processing of the baseband signal for SCA transmission is then considered. Experimental results of actual SCA transmission including an STL are presented. Areas for further investigation are suggested."
"A method is developed for the design of cascaded-amplifier systems where noise and nonlinear distortion may accumulate, at different rates. The amplifiers may operate at levels other than the \"midway\" level to achieve results not possible with the conventional approach."
"Man has stereovision. He likes to see things in their proper perspective. At present we have monochrome and color television systems which are compatible. Naturally, one would like to have a stereo television system. It will be more useful, if such a stereo television system is also compatible with the present monochrome and color television systems. In this paper such a compatible stereo television system is explained in principle."
 "This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The steel industry is characterized by the impressive scale of its production processes and machinery, and by ever-increasing requirements of precision and accuracy on its steel products. The drive and automation systems are amongst the most sophisticated in industry. There are two approaches to the design of these hierarchical systems. One is to structure the system as a collection of single variable subsystems. The other is to use modern multivariable control techniques to synthesize the control. The authors examine experiences with both techniques and describe their experiences using simulation to study the subsystem, the process disturbances imposed, and the interactions with other subsystems. The need for improved, shorter elapsed time and lower cost design techniques remains a continuing challenge to both theoreticians and industry engineers."
"This paper reviews a learning process for the development of a model of a specific physiological control system. It provides an example of a nonlinear system structure, and elucidates processes of aggregating biological variables and of decomposing a system model at different time scales. A quasilinear approximate analysis of the model suggests an adaptive control mechanism which is yet to be explored."
"To begin, we must agree on what we mean by a learning system and a learning control system. A system is called learning if the information pertaining to the unknown features of a process or its environment is acquired by the system, and the obtained experience is used for future estimation, recognition, classification, decision or control such that the performance of the system will be improved. A learning system is called a learning control system if the acquired information is used to control a process with unknown features (these standardized definitions are taken from Reference 1). The attribute of \"learning\" that is associated with learning systems, derives from psychological learning theories, especially reinforcement learning theories."
"This paper presents a summary of research directed at the development of algorithms for system identification in large scale systems. Methods based upon sensitivity analysis and hierarchical systems theory are described."
"The determination of noninferior points and corresponding noninferior values related to the multicriteria optimization problem is approached through the use of the sensitivity function. The sensitivity function has several attractive properties which provide the basis for efficient generation and representation of points in the set (or surface) of noninferior values and are exploited in the development of an efficient bicriteria optimization algorithm."
"The convergence of statistical (random) search for the minimization of an arbitrary function Q(w) is treated. It is shown that random search can be regarded as a gradient algorithm in the q-domain. Using this gradient to define the minimum of the function, the convergence is discussed at length-including convergence WP1, convergence in the mean and ε-optimality. The proof of convergence is based upon the theorems of convergence of random processes of Braverman and Rozonoer. The relationship between random search and order statistics is explained. Finally, emphasis is put on the applicability of the theorems for the design of hierarchical search systems and statistical search with a mixture."
"A new conjugate-gradient algorithm which minimizes a function of n variables is given. The algorithm performs n orthogonal searches in each stage and hence has the property that it is robust, i.e. it will not easily fail on functions which have a large number of variables (n>10) nor on functions which have \"ridge like\" properties. A general class of functions called L-functions, which includes the class of quadratic functions as a special case, is defined, and it is shown that the algorithm has the property that it will converge to the minimum of a L-function in n (or less) 1-dimensional, minimizations and (n-1) (or less) 1-dimensional pseudo-minimizations. Numerical experiments are included for systems of 2nd to 40th order, and based on these experiments (assuming the gradients are calculated numerically) the new algorithm appears to be more robust than Powell's [10], Fletcher-Powell's [11], and Jacobson-Oksman's [14] methods, faster than Rosenbrock's [9] method, and especially effective on high dimensional problems."
"This paper considers some aspects of a gradient projection method proposed by Goldstein [1], Levitin and Polyak [3] and more recently, in a less general context, by Mc-Cormick [10]. We propose and analyze some convergent stepsize rules to be used in conjunction with the method. These rules are similar in spirit with the efficient Armijo rule for the method of steepest descent and under mild assumptions they have the desirable property that they identify the set of active inequality constraints in a finite number of iterations. As a result the method may be converted towards the end of the process to a conjugate direction, Quasi-Newton or Newton's method and achieve the attendant superlinear convergence rate. As an example we propose a quadratically convergent combination of the method with Newton's method. Such combined methods appear to be very efficient for large scale problems with many simple constraints such as those often appearing in optimal control."
"The efficacy of Geoffrion's taxonomy of large-scale mathematical programming is being investigated in the context of state-constrained optimal control problems. One algorithm which can be synthesized from this taxonomy is called Generalized Benders Decomposition. In this paper, we first consider its direct application to optimal control. Numerical experience indicates the best performance is achieved when the dynamics are non-linear in the control and relatively few state-constraints are violated during the iteration process. To combat this latter difficulty, the algorithm is combined with parametric penalty methods. Some guidelines are provided on how to achieve improved numerical performance using this combined approach."
"To date few numerical comparisons between multiplier algorithms have been made. The full paper (available from the author) presents a numerical comparison of the algorithms of Hestenes, Tripathi and Narendra, Powell, Haarhoff and Buys, Kort and Bertsekas, and the author, on a variety of nonlinear equality constrained function minimization problems."
"A surveillance system for a given number of effluents, each with certain contaminants, is considered. An effluent can be sampled to determine whether any of the contaminants exceeds its standard, in which case a violation is said to have been detected. Damage costs are associated only with undetected violations. These costs depend upon pollutant loadings, the nature of the pollutants, and the assimilative capacity of the receiving water. The objective is the following: find the sampling frequencies for each effluent (during a certain monitoring period) such as to minimize the total cost of the undetected violations. This is to be done subject to a certain budget constraint for the monitoring period. The cost of an undetected violation is defined as the expected value of the damage. These expectations are evaluated using the statistical knowledge available prior to the beginning of the monitoring period. The statistics of the contaminants are updated at the end of each monitoring period. It is shown that a very simple optimization procedure, namely, the maximum marginal return method, can be used to obtain the optimal sampling frequencies."
"A comprehensive national energy research and development (ER&D) program must include many practical considerations which are intertwined with each other. The relevance of various concepts and techniques in system theory to these considerations, individually and collectively, is discussed. For the purpose of including most of these considerations in the comprehensive evaluation of ER&D strategies, a tentative procedure for integrating a number of relevant system theory techniques is presented. These techniques include multiattribute utility analysis, decision analysis, time and state dependent preference analysis, and portfolio analysis."
"Strategic planning is a responsibility of both industry and government and must deal with the complexities of the energy system embedded in the economy and environment. The systems approach can contribute to more rational strategic planning in the energy sector by providing a conceptual framework for discussion and a basis for quantitative analysis. Energy research and development policy is an important component of strategic planning and a comprehensive systems methodology has been developed and applied to this policy area. The Reference Energy System and Energy System Optimization Model were designed for application to strategic planning and have been used in the assessment of new energy technologies. These models and their application are discussed in detail. Extensions of the methodology involving coupling of the energy system model to an economic model are discussed."
"In this paper sensitivity analysis and specific optimal control theory are applied to the problem of water quality management of estuarine systems. The approach is based on the ultimate availability of a network of automatic monitoring stations along the stretch of the estuary under consideration. The stations will report to a central processing unit the current status of all conditions which seriously affect the functioning of the water eco-system. It is further assumed that water quality standards on a regional basis have been established according to water use and that physical aspects of the estuary (to be used as inputs to the mathematical models) are available or can be obtained through field measurements."
"This paper considers the problem of estimation of classification error in Pattern Recognition. A Theorem is presented to obtain the changes in the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices of the form S2 -1 S1, when there are changes of first order of smallness in the real Symmetric matrices Si, i=1, 2. Based on this theory a computational algorithm is developed for the estimation of classification error of Fisher classifier, using leaving groups out method."
"In this paper bounding estimators for uncertain systems are developed using the concept of Fuzzy Dynamic Programming. The estimator gives an upper bound to the error for any allowed system parameter variation. A dynamic system is considered where the uncertainty in initial state, additive plant disturbance, measurement errors are modeled as unknown but bounded (UBB). It is further assumed that there is a UBB uncertainty in the system parameters. The estimation problem for a non-linear system with parameter uncertainty is first formulated as a constrained optimization problem and then using Fuzzy Dynamic Programming the class of bounding estimators is derived. The results are applied to obtain a linear estimator for linear uncertain system. It is shown that such an estimator is precomputable and that it reduces to the optimum filter for a linear system with additive disturbances as the model uncertainty vanishes."
"A random error is shown to exist in time domain calculation of the variance reduction factor of a low-pass system. Rules are derived to assist in the selection of a sample size adequate to minimize the consequences of such random error and permit reliable time domain calculation of the variance reduction factor."
"A new form of the Cramer-Rao inequality for the estimator of vector parameter constants is presented. For a scalar Cramer-Rao inequality of the form of the one derived, the so-called Cramer-Rao lower bound does not have a denominator that must be maximized over all components of some matrix as was required in previous multivariate derivations. For a certain class of maximum likelihood parameter estimation problems, the Cramer-Rao lower bound is the error of estimation. For this class of problems, a denominator having the form exhibited by this lower bound involves a trace and is shown to be a norm squared in a Hilbert space. Minimizing the error of estimation is shown to be equivalent to maximizing the norm in a Hilbert space while constrained to a specific compact set which represents practical constraints. The specification of input probing functions to aid in the estimation of input gain parameters in a linear dynamical system with system process noise is considered as a special case of this class of maximum likelihood parameter estimation problems. The probing functions are bang-bang."
"The approximation of a continuous unknown deterministic function from samples of the function imbedded in noise is considered. Using the integral mean squared error criterion, the total approximation error composed of a deterministic and random part is found for the step function, straight line, and cubic spline approximations. It is shown for a gaussian function that if the noise variances are equal and larger than a specified threshold, then the straight line approximation is superior to the spline approximation while both spline and straight line approximations were always better than the step function approximation."
"The availability of an increasingly wide variety of LSI logic circuit packages is making it possible to implement the digital filter signal processing algorithms directly in special purpose hardware. Whether or not such implementations (assuming they meet the signal processing performance specification) will be used or deemed practical depends on many considerations such as initial cost, reliability, power consumption, space requirements, interfacing requirements, and ease of maintenance. Each of these considerations has a very strong economic component and must be understood in any meaningful design."
"In the implementation of digital filters, whether it be hardware or software implementation, registers consisting of a number of a finite number of bits are used to represent and manipulate quantities. A consequence of the use of this finite number of bits in the representation of quantities is the need for the roundoff of quantities after arithmetic or other operations. Round-off of the quantities results in errors, and the nature of these errors depends upon a variety of factors. In particular these errors are deterministic or stochastic depending upon whether the input is deterministic or stochastic, respectively. However, under certain circumstances for the case of the deterministic input, a stochastic model for the errors may be considered. This enables one to dichotomize the roundoff and other errors depending upon the correlated or the uncorrelated nature of these errors. The present paper considers various sources and the nature of these errors, and analyzes the generation, propogation and the effect of these errors on the performance of a digital filter, where the assumption of uncorrelatedness holds."
"A digital filter produces an output sequence {yn} by operating on an input sequence {xn} in accordance with a specified computational algorithm. We consider in this paper digital filters of the recursive type characterized in the time domain by a linear constant coefficient difference equation."
"Theoretical analysis of noise generation in finite precision digital filters (or more generally, in finite precision numerical algorithms) is usually carried out assuming that the effects of round-off or truncation associated with each numerical operation can be considered as equivalent to the corresponding injection of random, uniformly distributed, white noise signal sources. These sources are usually assumed to be uncorrelated in time and uncorrelated with each other. A detailed examination of the situation reveals that this is not the case even when the filter is driven by a random sequence which, in itself, may be correlated. When the filter is driven by a highly correlated input signal (such as a singularity function or a periodic function), or when the filter is in a limit-cycle oscillation, errors generated by finite precision arithmetic are highly correlated as is apparent from their periodic nature. Equations for absolute bounds on limit cycles have been formulated by several authors. However, these formulas are generally overly pessimistic for design purposes."
"Since multipliers are the slowest and most expensive components in digital filters, schemes for increasing speed and reducing cost are of interest. For a device that does multiplication by successive shift and add operations, different architectures can be used to speed the process and allow for hardware sharing. Several architectures are discussed in this paper. For filters that carry a small digital word length, nonconventional multiply schemes may well be appropriate. Two such schemes, table look up and residue algebra, are discussed herein."
"Simple mechanical linkages are often unable to cope with many control problems associated with high performance aircraft. This has led to the development of digital fly-by-wire control systems and in particular digital adaptive controllers that can be efficiently adjusted during system operation. To this effect, a control law has been derived based upon the minimization of a single stage weighted combination of control energy and the squared error between the states of a linear plant and model. This control logic is interfaced with an on-line weighted least squares estimator and a Kalman state filter. The utility of the resultant control system is illustrated by its application to the linearized dynamics of a typical fighter aircraft."
"This paper is based on a tutorial presented at the First Annual Advanced Control Conference, sponsored by Control Engineering magazine and the Purdue Laboratory for Applied Industrial Control. The purpose of this paper is to acquaint the professional audience with some process control adaptive activity and to pose some practical design considerations. After a review of related process control history, three adaptive systems for process control application are offered. The practical issues of adaptive control are examined from technical, system design and operational points of view. The operational issues are both the most crucial to the application of adaptive control and the least understood. The paper concludes with a look at the future of adaptation in terms of direction of technology, broadening of application scope, and the solution of the operational problems."
"One of the more difficult control problems of the aerospace world is that of successfully landing a flying vehicle. This problem is obviously more severe in some branches of the industry than in others, the U. S. Navy being plagued with probably the most difficult landing situation. For example, change the conventional landing field to an aircraft carrier deck, move the carrier through the water at 30 knots, oscillate the deck in three degrees of freedom simultaneously (pitch, roll, and heave), add a black night, and final approach to landing takes on dimensions unknown to most pilots."
"Oscillating adaptive systems have inherently zero sensitivity to plant gain (K) uncertainty and therefore appear very attractive. However, K uncertainty reappears as a factor in quasilinear conditions which must be satisfied, affecting the minimum permissible value of the oscillating frequency ωo. A two-loop system is proposed in which the uncertainty in K no longer affects (ωo)min. However, K uncertainty reappears in the minor loop, where it affects the system ability to cope with fast K variation, when K is at its low value."
"Target detection and azimuth determination is accomplished in the enroute air traffic control radar beacon system with a sliding window processor. Due to missed replies and the presence of interference the center mark is not deterministic, and can only be described in a statistical sense. A novel approach is taken which introduces a class of input/output sequences that establish the validity of a target start. An expression for the center mark distribution is developed around these \"valid chains\". The resulting analytic tool is used to examine sliding window performance in several current and projected ATC environments and is available to determine optimal sliding window parameter settings. An important finding is that the centermark estimate is biased; for low reply probability or high interferencerates this term is a significant source of error."
"Cubic spline functions are used to characterize the powered portion of high performance solid fuel rocket trajectories, and the use of such a model for Kalman filtering is considered. The filter is evaluated on the basis of maximum and rms error; and the effects of model errors, measurement errors, noise level, and timing errors are considered for various sample rates. Instrument dynamics are included in the system model. Simulation results indicate the performance to be superior to that of several other filters in use."
"This paper evaluates performance of a filter that transforms nonlinear measurements in the coordinate system of the state before using in the filter. The bias and computational performance of this mechanization are compared with the conventional extended Kalman (EK) filter. The bias in the EK filter is a function of the covariance of the estimation error, while in the state-coordinate-system (SCS) it depends on variance of the transformed measurement noise, which is independent of the estimation error and depends only on the nonlinearity. Thus when the initial covariance of the state is large, the SCS filter has less bias than the EK filter. This reduction in the bias is achieved at a cost of additional computations required to implement the transformation. The improved performance of the filter due to the coordinate transformation is then demonstrated with an example of satellite-aided aircraft navigation."
"The Shuttle Training Aircraft (STA), specified and procured by NASA to train astronauts in the terminal descent phase of Orbiter flight, will be controlled by a model-following digital avionics system designed and built by Sperry Flight Systems."
"A multiple-input single-output linear state variable model is used to determine the extent to which a human controller involved in a compensatory tracking task uses cues other than the visual error signal to improve his tracking performance. The control system used in this study is a roll axis chair designed to simulate roll in a high performance aircraft. The additional cues studied are the angular position and angular velocity of the human controller."
"The correspondence between minimum-energy control of linear systems with arbitrary functional constraints on the output and spline interpolation is examined. It is shown that the spline that interpolates the given constraints is the output of the given system when driven by the optimal control. This fact yields a simple general formula for the minimum-energy control. A duality result for minimum-energy control and smoothing is also presented."
"A design procedure is developed for synthesizing a state vector feedback controller which approximates the minimum energy-average power constrained optimal regulator for linear systems. Simulation results are presented for second and fourth order systems which illustrate the restraining effects on the control signal of the nonlinear suboptimal regulator in relation to a linear feedback controller."
"The controllability of linear systems with large and small time constants (singularly perturbed systems) is established. The time-optimal control of such systems is shown to be separable into two time-scales related to the slow and fast modes of the system. An approximate design of the time-optimal control is proposed, which is based on the separability of the fast and slow controls."
"This paper treats problems of decentralized control of stochastic discrete-time dynamic systems with one-step-delay sharing information structure. It is shown that, by applying dynamic programming technique, the problem can be decomposed into several static team problems. For LQG case, this approach gives a solution which clearly shows the relation between estimation and control functions in the optimal control policy. Also the form of this solution is convenient for numerical computation of the optimal control."
"In a nested decentralized LQG control problem, if the control variable u depends on the random vector y, then the expected value of the system's current state given y may not (unlike the centralized problem) be a sufficiently detailed summary of y to use to compute the optimal u. This paper describes a method for finding a small number of functions of y sufficient for computing the optimal u, yielding a result very similar to the separation of estimation and control discussed in [1]. In particular we obtain for a class of decentralized problems the analogues of the type of recursive off-line and on-line computation found in the (centralized) Kalman-Bucy filter. A detailed exposition appears in [2]."
"Given a nonlinear analytic control system with an equilibrium point sufficient conditions are given for the existence of a one-to-one transformation to coordinates in which the system becomes bilinear, and an explicit construction is given."
"The techniques of optimal control are used to study the coordination of cat hindlimb muscles during the take-off phase of a maximal vertical jump. The optimal control problem is solved on a digital computer and compared with measurements of instrumented cats which have been trained to jump on command."
"A multilevel hierarchical computer simulation model focusing on world food problems has been developed as an integral component of the Mesarovic-Pestel World Modeling Project. The model incorporates submodels of economic phenomena, demographic phenomena, land use and food production which have been developed by scholars representing several disciplines and universities. In this paper results from a problem oriented, policy oriented analysis of potential food shortages in South Asia are presented."
"The objective of this effort is to develop a global but regionalized water cycle model which by proper linkages can be used within the multilevel model of the world system. The concern is with issues broader than questions of water resources as such. The water model is based on the regionalization adopted for the total project; its structure and equations have been developed and programmed for use in computer analysis. Parameters are estimated for various regions and the usefullness of the model is assessed by means of a preliminary analysis of alternative scenario regarding future developments."
"A key feature of the Mesarovic-Pestel (M-P) multilevel, hierarchical, regionalized world model is the use of an interactive mode in which man and computer work as partners in decision analysis. The procedure allows combination of the logical and computing capabilities of the machine with the intuition, experience and heuristic capability of a human. The interactive mode permits evaluation of intangibles such as technical innovation, and most importantly, social and political developments."
"A world oil model has been developed in the context of the Mesarovic-Pestel World Model Project, and it is integrated with the other models of that project. A wide range of scenarios can be analyzed with this rather detailed model. For instance, we can study the pricing policies of the Mideast to discover the price levels which optimize long term Mideast economic growth. The implications of various price levels for importing nations can also be studied."
"The idea of guaranteed cost control can be easily extended to stochastic systems with uncertain parameters in plant dynamics. By a slight modification, the guaranteed error estimation can be formulated as a problem of guaranteed cost control. The system considered in this paper is described by a stochastic differential equation with an additive random input and a noisy measurement. The noise processes are assumed to be Gaussian, zero mean, independent with know variances. Furthermore the controlled plant has large parameter uncertainties known to be in some bounded sets. It is shown that with reasonable bounds on uncertain terms, the overall performance bounds are asymptotically tight in the sense that the solutions reduce to the optimal ones when uncertainties vanish."
"The problem of incomplete feedback control of stochastic linear systems is considered. The system is modeled by an uncertain parameter, linear, time-invariant integral equation driven by Gaussian white noise and an incomplete observation which is a random, linear transformation of the states. The optimal control is the linear time invariant transformation of the observation which minimizes the expected value of a quadratic performance index. The necessary conditions that the optimal control must satisfy are given. This gradient is then applied to a flight control design problem. This problem concerns finding feedback gains to improve the longitudional handling qualities of a jet transport aircraft with uncertainty in the stability derivatives. The results of this simplified example demonstrate the usefulness of this technique to improve system response when there is uncertainty in the system parameters."
"This paper discusses the problem of controlling stochastic nonlinear systems where the end-time of the process has to be determined on-line. Since the optimal solution is not obtainable, a dual control method is developed for this class of problems. The algorithm has the property that the control, which is restricted to be causal, utilizes the statistical description of the future observations, i.e., it is of the closed-loop, rather than feedback, type. This property allows the controller to enhance the estimation via the dual effect and thus improve the overall performance. The method is illustrated by applying it to an interception problem. Simulation studies on this particular problem provide further insight into how the dual effect of the control can be utilized in nonlinear problems. They also indicate the potential value of the algorithm presented here to practical problems."
"Necessary conditions that have to be satisfied by the four design matrices of a time-invariant dynamic compensator are obtained for a general optimal limited state feedback controller design problem in which plant noise and measurement noise may both be present. These design matrices are chosen so that an infinite terminal time quadratic measure of system performance is extremized."
"For a class of practical applications where the control problem may be approximated by the linear-quadratic-Gaussian formulation, it is proposed that performance of the \"separation-theorem\" controller (measured in terms of physical energy input and expected transient response) may be improved by feed through of the innovations (residual) process of the Kalman filter. Explicit values for the gains on the innovations signal are derived using the Matrix Minimum Principle."
"Traditionally most research in stochastic control has been directed toward the LQG or related problems wherein one is attempting to solve a deterministic control problem in the presence of noise. This may take the form of measurement noise and/or source noise but in either case the noise is a perturbation on a deterministic signal and not the fundamental process underlying the control problem. The purpose of the present paper is to review some research dealing with the problem of \"controlling a stochastic process.\" That is: the fundamental signal that the plant is required to follow is itself a stochastic process."
"Results are obtained connecting the zero distribution of a real polynomial and a complex polynomial of approximately half the degree of the real polynomial. The results are applied to the relating of real aperiodic polynomials with real and complex Hurwitz polynomials. \"Unit circle\" results are also outlined."
"An algorithm is presented which computes the invariant canonical form [1], [2], for a linear multivariable system in state-space form and the transformation matrices which produce this canonical form. An example is given of the algorithm."
"The paper proves a Theorem applicable in identification of minimal realizations of linear time-invariant multivariable dynamic systems. The identification procedure, based on the use of the Theorem, extends previously published results and permits a greater flexibility in its application, which is more advantageous, particularly from computational aspects."
"The problem of designing a static state feedback controller which matches a given multivariable system to a desired ideal system (model) is treated. The system under control is assumed in state-space form while the model is assumed in transfer matrix form. The approach followed which is new in the model matching field converts the system in the time-domain input-output form and was motivated by the solution of the input-output decoupling problem. An algorithm is developed which separates the conditions which must be satisfied by the system under control and the model to be matched, from the equations which must be solved to find the gains of the feedback controller. Several examples are included to support the theoretical results."
"The question of dynamic feedback compensation in linear multi-variable systems is considered from a frequency domain point of view. Two related approaches to this problem are presented, both of which employ \"dual relatively prime factorizations\"; i.e. either R(s)P(s)-1 or P(s)-1R(s), of the transfer matrix, T(s), of the system. The first approach employs the notion of the \"eliminant matrix\" of two relatively right prime (r.r.p.) polynomial matrices, such as R(s) and P(s), while the second uses the properties of the class of unimodular matrices which \"reduce\" the composite matrix [R(s) P(s)] to an upper right identity, [1 0]."
"Situations are described in which adaptive identification of a linear plant is possible. These prototype situations are then applied to exhibit procedures for the identification of multivariable plants. Adaptive observers are also discussed."
"The speed of adaptive response of Liapunovdesigned adaptive systems are related to some extent to the degree of stability of the system. A generalized quadratic Liapunov function is constructed to allow several new adaptive algorithms to be synthesized. The new algorithms each improve the degree of stability over previously reported adaptive algorithms. A root-locus analysis substantiates the improvement in response speed."
"The model reference adaptive system approach together with the positive real lemma for time varying discrete systems are used to construct a recursive identifier with a parallel adjustable model, using an adaptation algorithm having a decreasing gain. The identifier assures an asymptotic unbiased parameter estimation in the presence of noise obscured measurements. Experimental results obtained from simulated data and from the identification of a paper machine are presented. The comparison with the performances of other identification methods is discussed."
"Convergence characteristics of the adaptive observer, to be acceptable, must be insensitive to initial conditions. In this paper the problem of optimization with respect to the set of adaptive gains is considered. It is found that sensitivity of an optimal solution is highly dependent upon the definition of the cost function. The adaptive observer is shown, to be characterized as a linear autonomous system with (periodic) time-variable parameters. A cost function is defined in terms of the elements of a transition matrix so as to yield a suboptimal solution insensitive to initial conditions. Other factors affecting the convergence properties are discussed. Particular attention is given to the case of periodic signals for which the eigenvalues of a constant matrix can be used as design criteria."
"This paper examines the implications of the hypothesis that a physical process can be modeled by a system of the form (C,A + KC,B) where (C,A) is an observable pair and K and B are parameters to be identified. The hypothesis leads directly to a linear equation relating K,B and a model's state to quantities computable from measured data. The findings of [2-4] are extended by showing that K,B and a model's state can be asymptotically estimated using a dynamic identifier. By relaxing the preceding hypothesis it is shown that these results also apply to more general classes of models."
"This paper discusses the discrete version of the adaptive observer problem. First, a stable identification scheme for a linear discrete multivariable system when all its state variables are accessible is presented. The scheme is then extended to obtain stable identification laws for a single variable system using only input-output data."
"Guaranteed cost control and estimation of fuzzy systems are obtained by the method of fuzzy dynamic programming. Three types of models are selected to describe the fuzzy systems: 1. Systems with uncertain parameters. 2. Systems with Donati's approximation in the norm. 3. Systems with extended approximation in the norm. In the latter two cases, minimax control is generally obtainable, and is shown to be the guaranteed cost control with lowest guaranteed cost. Using the concept of most likely estimation the estimation problem is formulated into a similar variational problem, and is solved by essentially the same analysis."
"Trajectory sensitivity with respect to small random perturbations in initial state and plant parameters is investigated. An upper bound on the maximal spread around the nominal trajectory at time t for a probability level p is established in the paper. If a sufficiently high degree of exponential stability is attained by additional feedback, the modified system has a lower upper bound compared to that for the system without additional feedback. Moreover, when a deterministic observer is employed, the upper bound is increased but it is still lower than that corresponding to the system without additional feedback and without an observer."
"This paper is concerned with the output feedback control design of norm uncertain systems. The formulation of the uncertainty in norm is explained and its relevance to many practical cases is shown. The possibility of obtaining less uncertain outputs of the plant by means of suitable output feedback controls is investigated."
"In this study feedback design procedures are developed for linear multivariable systems with uncertain parameters and inaccessible states. An observer is used in the feedback loop. The basic design parameters are the observer gain matrix and the state-estimate feed-back matrix. Two models of uncertainty are considered. One is a \"deterministic\" model where the parameters are assumed to vary within specified bounds. The other is a \"random\" model where the parameters are assumed to have white noise random variations. The prime design objective is to reduce as much as possible an integral-quadratic performance measure. In the random case the expected value of the integral-quadratic form is used for minimization while in the deterministic case an upper bound on the integral-quadratic is used. Gradients are used to compute the \"optimal\" design parameters. The required gradients are computed from the solution of Lyapunov equations."
"An outline is given of a new theory of control system design when the plant is partly unknown. It leads to some novel ideas of controller synthesis with apparently promising prospects for their ultimate reduction to practice."
"Frequency response methods are very useful in the design of linear, time-invariant systems with parameter uncertainty, such that the system response satisfies specified bounds. These methods are highly transparent permitting the designer to make intelligent trade-offs between sensitivity, complexity of compensation and bandwidth. Schauder's fixed point theorem permits these same techniques to be used in linear time-varying and nonlinear systems with significant parameter uncertainty. Frequency response methods have also provided precise synthesis techniques for oscillating adaptive systems and for using nonlinear compensation to reduce feedback loop bandwidths."
"Two-person zero-sum games are considered in which both players desire termination on a prescribed target set. Some consequences of this \"playability\" requirement are discussed, in particular, in relation to properties of classical games."
"This paper describes the theory and a new algorithm for computing the parameterized solution to a family of minmax problems (MMP): min max Ji (u,z), zεZ. uεU iεI It is shown that MMP may be solved indirectly by looking for the saddle point of εIεI ciJi(u,z). This result enables an important type of MMP to be reduced by analytic manipulation into a family of inequality constrained programming problems. Over partitioning subsets of Z, the solution ω to this latter family of problems may be found by solving appropriate equality constrained problems. Two important new results are proved: one concerns the continuity of the solution ω over line segments in Z and the other concerns linearity of the interset boundaries separating the partitioning subsets of Z. These results are incorporated into the new algorithm which proves to be excellent for obtaining the parameterized solution of certain types of families of minmax problems."
"A dual space approach is proposed to the characterization of solutions in cooperative games, which are \"non-dominated\" with respect to a rather general class of \"domination structures\" (closed convex cones). To this aim, a general theory is proposed of correspondences between sets of Rn and their transformed in Rn+1*, as well as between their respective boundaries, and various properties of these correspondences are derived. It is shown how these results may be applied to get a complete geometrical characterization of the \"non-dominated solutions\", which may be computationally obtained by using the sub-differential of the support function of the original set. Further extensions are given, for example to the computation of \"non-dominated decisions\"."
"The controller of a system initially obtains an imperfect measurement of its state variables, and obtains no measurements thereafter. He is therefore constrained to choose an open-loop control function, depending only on the initial measurement. Control of the system incurs a cost which the controller wishes to make as small as possible. However, because the initial state is not known exactly, it is not possible to control the system so that the minimum cost is guaranteed. In this paper, I will consider the problem of controlling the system so that the worst possible cost, consistent with the initial measurement, is minimized. The system considered will have linear dynamics and a quadratic cost function."
"First, let us define a N-player quantitative game as in Ref. (1). Let there be given a set G, whose members will be denoted by x, ordered by a reflexive relation >, such that x' > x\" or x\" > x' whenever x' and x\" are distinct members of the union of the domaine and the range of >. Let there be given prescribed sets Sα, α=1,2,...N, whose members will be denoted by Sα, α - 1,2,...N, respectively; and let there be given a relation RCD × P(G), where D = G × S1 ×... × SN and P(G) is the collection of all non empty subsets of G. We shall suppose that (xi, s) Rγ, where s = (s1, s2,... sN), (xi, s) ε D, ε ε P(G), implies that (a) xi εγ, and (b) x > xi, ,V × ϵ γ"
"The notion of an unbiased equilibrium value is introduced for the theory of two-person differential games in which multiple equilibrium values occur. In zero-sum games an unbiased saddle point value is simply the mean of the set of saddle point strategy values and an unbiased saddle point strategy pair is one which gives a payoff equal to the mean. A very simple example is given to illustrate the ideas. In nonzero-sum games an unbiased Nash equilibrium value is the convergent point of a sequence of mean values resulting from a nested sequence of sets of Nash equilibrium values."
"In this paper, we develop a model for a monopolist in a dynamic market who tries to maximize his overall profits over a certain planning horizon. Conditions for his optimal supply curve for both finite and infinite horizon problems are obtained and some interesting properties of the optimal paths are discussed. A special (linear-quadratic) case is then treated and explicit characterizations of the optimal supply curve and the market price-supply behaviors are obtained."
"Optimal preventive maintenance policies, for a machine subject to deterioration with age and intermittent breakdowns and repairs, are derived using optimal control theory. The optimal policies are shown to be of bang-bang nature. The extension to the case, when there are a large number of identical machines and several repairmen in the system, is considered next. This model takes into account the waiting line formed at the repair facility and establishes a link between this problem and the classical 'repairmen problem'. An example is presented in detail illustrating, the procedure to obtain the optimal maintenance policy and the optimum number of repairmen for a system consisting of two machines. The results obtained here extend and unify several recent results for the problem."
"This paper outlines the methods used in the Real Time Computer Complex to keep computers operating. Methods include selectover, high speed restart, and low speed restart. The hardware and software needed to implement these methods is discussed as well as the System Recovery Facility, Alternate Device Support, and Timeout. In general, methods developed while supporting the Gemini, Apollo, and Skylab space missions are presented."
 "The application of the linear-quadratic-Gaussian (LQG) tracking problem to production planning and control systems is discussed. Decision concepts are developed from an examination of the structure of a generalized production control system. The decision problem is modeled as a LQG tracking problem operating in the presence of persistent disturbances--the disturbances representing the demand for finished goods. The development of a solution leads to a linear, time-invariant decision policy which is a decomposition of the decision input into separate and nearly independent decision tasks. Sufficient conditions for the existence of a solution are presented. An open-loop, closed-loop decision system is presented to show how the decision model can be used to analyze relationships among system structure, performance, and information requirements."
"A method for accurately forecasting the regional energy demand in terms of demand for each resource and further allocating the available resources to the various demand points at a minimized cost is studied. The model utilizes the present supply of all the available resources, the cost functions of each resource, the net regional products and the present demand per resource at each demand point. The optimal allocation of each resource from supply points to demand points represents the Hitchcock - Koopmans transportation model which can be stated as follows: \"Given a number of supply sources (S1, S2,..., Si,..., SM) and a number of demand points (D1, D2,..., Dj,..., DN), each source Si having a quantity qi which has to be transported to various demand points in such a way that the total quantity arriving at Dj fulfills the demand dj + Rj d. Also, given the shipping cost of a unit quantity of the resource, and the distances involved, the object is to determine the allocation of resources which minimizes the total cost\"."
"A mathematical model for two trophic levels is modified by introducing time delays into differential equations. The time delays correspond to the predator population a generation earlier. Some properties of solutions of the model are presented."
"A system model for a Community Referral Center (CRC) and its service function was developed to evaluate the effectiveness of the CRC and create a composite description of its operation. The model structure and parameters were derived from several individual investigations of the inner-city and related service bureaucracies. The task was to determine how the CRC has fit into its human environment, into the complex of organizations and public and private agencies with which it has to deal and finally how it has gone about building its own structure."
"This paper generalized the approach of Ref. [1] for the design of optimal inputs to MIMO systems with process or driving noise. First an expression for the information matrix is derived and it is shown to consist of two parts, one depending on the designed input and the other depending on the process noise input. The equivalence relationships between D-optimal designs and min-max designs are obtained leading up to numerical algorithms for computing globally optimal designs. Easily computable bounds are derived for the loss in performance due to suboptimal designs. It is shown that the optimal input may be chosen to have a discrete spectrum with a finite number of frequencies."
"The problem of designing optimal inputs in the identification of multi-input multi-output linear systems with unknown time varying parameters is considered using a Bayesian approach. A sensitivity index gives a measure of performance for the closed-loop system inputs. The computation of the optimal closed-loop mappings is shown to be a nontrivial exercise in stochastic control with no analytic solution, but optimal open-loop and affine laws yield much more tractable problems. For time invariant systems, the sensitivity index considered is shown to be equivalent to the trace of the (strictly positive definite) Information Matrix associated with the system. Numerical examples are given. A Kalman filter is used to estimate the parameters. A necessary condition for the Kalman filter not to diverge when applying linear feedback, is also given."
"In this paper, upper and lower bounds for identification error are established for finite observation samples. It was shown that the behavior of both the upper and lower bounds are described completely by a resolvability function which describes the degree of resolvability between different parameters in the parameter set. This allows one to derive identifiability conditions by investigating the asymptotic behavior of this function. Moreover, the resolvability function gives a quantitative measure of identifiability."
"The simulation of the input output behaviour of a complex multivariable continuous system in terms of a lower order discrete time model is considered. The system and the model are assumed to be linear, asymptotically stable and time invariant. The norm approach is developed and a performance index, which is a bound for a whole class of possible errors in the worst case is minimized with respect to the model parameters. In this way a model is achieved which is well suited for a fast digital simulation and allows the user to compute on line the error bound, together with the simulated output."
"Measurement of the steady state response to a sinusoidal input has long been an important technique for the identification of linear systems. In this paper we consider this approach to identification for the class of nonlinear systems shown in Figure I."
"A procedure for computing explicit regions in the parameter space in which the Gauss-Newton method will converge to a unique solution is developed. The computed convergence regions are applicable in any control systems applications using the Gauss-Newton method. The uniqueness result is of value by itself because it is independent of the Gauss-Newton procedure and gives explicit regions of parameter identifiability. The main feature is the computational aspect which makes use of interval analysis."
"This paper considers the identification of dynamical systems from input-output data. The problem of parameter identifiability for such systems is approached by considering whether system outputs obtained with different parameter values can be distinguished one from another. The results are stated formally by defining the notion of \"output distinguishability\". Parameter identifiability is then defined precisely in terms of output distinguishability. Several results concerning this approach are presented."
 "Processing of pictorial images by digital computers is currently attracting much interest. This paper describes a new facility evolving at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and some of the projects being planned. Among the projects are the study of picture transmission links between two minicomputers, the use of microprocessors to operate image displays and hybrid computer processing of signals."
"We have recently initiated a program of basic research on image structure, image characteristics, image models and their application to various image processing tasks. The objective is to achieve a better understanding of image structure and to use this knowledge to develop improved mathematical and statistical models for use in image analysis and processing tasks such as image enhancement, image restoration, coding, information extraction, etc. The ultimate objective of this research is to form a basis for the development of technology relative to machine extraction of information from aircraft and satellite imagery of the earth's surface."
"A solution to the problem of automatic location of objects in digital pictures by computer is presented. A self-scaling local edge detector which can be applied in parallel on a picture is described. Clustering algorithms and boundary following algorithms which are sequential in nature process the edge data to locate images of objects."
"The aim of this paper is to describe some of the important concepts and techniques which seem to me to help provide a solution of the stationary time series problem (prediction and model identification). Section 1 reviews models. Section 2 reviews prediction theory and develops criteria of closeness of a \"fitted\" model to a \"true\" model. The central role of the infinite autoregressive transfer function g∞ is developed, and the time series modeling problem is defined to be the estimation of g∞. Section 3 describe auto-regressive estimators of g∞. It introduces a criterion for selecting the order of an auto-regressive estimator which can be regarded as determining the order of an AR scheme when in fact the time series is generated by an AR scheme of finite order."
"In recent years there has been increasing interest in autoregressive spectrum estimation. This procedure fits a finite autoregression to the time series data, and calculates the spectrum from the estimated autoregression coefficients and the one step prediction error variance. For multivariate time series, the estimated autoregressive matrices and one step prediction covariance matrix produce estimates of the spectra, coherences, phases, and group delays. The use of Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) for identification of the order of the autoregression to be used makes the procedure objective. Experience has indicated that AIC works very well for model identification when compared to more subjective procedures such as the examination of partial F-statistics, and that using both autoregressive spectrum estimation and classical spectrum and superimposing the plots gives a much stronger feeling for the shape of the true spectrum being estimated. The results of some of these analyses are presented."
"In this paper new results are derived for the computation of D-optimal randomized input designs to identify unknown parameters in linear systems with process noise and in non-linear and distributed parameter systems without process noise. The Kiefer-Wolfowitz experimental design approach that was extended earlier by the author to frequency-domain synthesis of optimal inputs is generalized here to the computation of optimal probability measures on the space of time-domain inputs. Both discrete-time and continuous-time systems are considered and algorithms converging to the global optima are given. Extensions to other criteria and bounds for suboptimal designs are also derived."
"The estimation of unknown, time-invariant parameters that, if known, completely specify a discrete, linear dynamic model with Gaussian disturbances, is considered. Following the Bayesian approach the unknown parameters are modelled as random variables with known a-priori probability density. Optimal in the mean-square-error sense estimates are desired. However, this requires recursive updating and storage of a non-Gaussian, and more importantly, non-reproducing density. Therefore, exact realization of the nonlinear parameter estimators requires immense computational effort and storage capacity. To alleviate these difficulties, spline functions are used for the approximate realization of the Bayesian parameter estimation algorithm. Specifically, variation diminishing splines are used to approximate the a-posteriori probability density (pdf). This approximation of the pdf is specified in terms of a finite number of parameters, yielding a readily implementable approximation of the exact but unimplementable parameter estimation algorithm. Extensive numerical simulation indicates that the spline algorithm performs well, yielding parameter estimates close to the true values."
"This paper discusses the concept of strong instrumental variables and strong instrumental matrix sequences for the estimation of the transfer-function parameters of discrete-time, time-invariant models of linear systems. It is shown that strong instrumental variable estimators are strongly consistent and a sufficient condition for the estimator to be asymtotically unbiased is given. Moreover, it is shown that with a persistently exciting signal of appropriate order for an input, \"virtually\" any discrete-time, time-invariant, linear system model of appropriate order can be used to generate strong instrumental variables."
"The Moore-Penrose generalized inverse is employed in the problem of Lagrange to obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for normality, sufficient conditions for the nonexistence of conjugate points and sufficient conditions for nonnegativity of the second variation."
"Many engineering applications require the computation of the q algebraically largest eigenvalues and a corresponding eigenspace of a large, sparse, real, symmetric matrix. An iterative, block version of the symmetric Lanczos algorithm has been developed for this computation. There are no restrictions on the sparsity pattern within the matrix or on the distribution of the eigenvalues of the matrix. Zero eigenvalues, eigenvalues equal in magnitude but opposite in sign, and multiple eigenvalues can all be handled directly by the procedure."
"Traditionally, bandwidth compression techniques for speech signals have consisted of two classes - time domain techniques such as delta modulators which operate at high bit rates (16 KBPS to 40 KBPS) or spectral domain techniques such as vocoders which operate at very low bit rates (2.4 KBPS to 4.8 KBPS). Concomitant with this division has been the choice between natural sounding systems which preserve the speech signal in spite of background noise and artificial sounding systems which are highly susceptible to errors induced by background noise in the speaker's environment."
"Actual rates of return to regulated firms that face systematic growth in demand, in factor prices and in technical productivity are rarely, if ever, precisely at the target rates set by regulatory agencies. If regulators make discrete price adjustments only after the firm's actual rate of return deviates from the target rate by some threshold amount, then during periods of strong wage growth, the actual returns are less than the target return on the average, and price increases are required at ever shortening intervals. If regulators make continuous price adjustments so as to minimize a quadratic penalty (disutility) function, then the firm's return may be consistently above or below the target rate."
"Muscle behaves in a variety of exotic, esoteric, and protean ways. Interestingly enough, a good deal of this exotic behavior has been revealed from laboratory experiments on excised muscle, rather than from observation of intact, in situ, in vivo muscles. Naturally a satisfactory physical model of muscle would have to be capable of behaving like real muscle in a wide variety of ways. This presentation will acquaint you with the laboratory behavior of muscle and with models that have been devised to help quantify that behavior and/or to understand the basis for it. Only a model capable of simulating all known behavior should be considered competent to serve such purposes. One such model will be defined and used for obtaining a set of parameters for muscles."
"The United States Air Force is currently developing an Advanced Airborne Command Post System. This system will provide the National Command Authorities and the Strategic Air Command a survivable command and control system during the pre-, trans- and post-attack phases of a general war. This paper presents a general description of the system, its interface with other systems, details on selected subsystems, and discusses potential growth capabilities."
"As the date for fielding the U. S. Army AN/TSQ-73 Missile Minder air defense system approaches, the Army is anticipating significant gains in faster reaction time. improved accuracy, enlarged portrayal of the air battle situation, and greater overall interoperability with interfacing command, control, and communication systems of all the services. The hardware packaging will permit the equipment to move and deploy as rapidly as the Surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) with which it is employed. A very important feature of the system is the benefits obtained using sophisticated electronics to enable the Army to use fewer operators and lower skilled maintenance personnel than the past systems. Incorporating advances in defense electronics and computer technology, the AN/TSQ-73 represents the fifth in a line of air defense command and control systems. This paper describes the forthcoming Missile Minder system and the benefits anticipated from its introduction to the field."
"This paper could well be titled, \"Systems Engineering for Navy Platform Effectiveness,\" since the major decision and control issues are focused on optimizing the performance of the platform. Platform effectiveness is largely determined by the electronic systems aboard. In the past, optimizing such electronic systems usually reverted to the effectiveness of a software system contained in a general purpose digital computer. The role of the system engineer usually broke down somewhere between identification of functional requirements and transfer of these into computer instructions by programming personnel. The reasons for past failures and the challenge of new approaches are the theme of this presentation. In summary, what is needed most is unambiguous communication among all persons involved in development of Navy digital electronic systems, with the most probable solution resting in the language of mathematics, science and engineering."
"A national Air Traffic Control automation system in the Federal Aviation Administration became a possibility with the advent of third generation computer hardware. By mid 1974, the FAA has implemented radar data processing in major terminals and four air route traffic control centers; within the next year all continental centers and high density terminals will be automated and interfaced. Key problems were in communications, interpretation of needs, continuity of intent. Managing the new system necessitated development of interpretative specialists, a new project-oriented management organization, a system of configuration control and a process for orderly functional change."
"When a bidder's strategy in one auction will affect his competitor's behavior in subsequent auctions, bidding in a sequence of auctions can be modeled fruitfully as a multistage control process in which the control is the bidder's strategy while the state characterizes the competitors' behavior. This paper presents such a model in which the state transition represents the competitors' reaction to the bidder's strategy. Dynamic programming is used to derive the infinite horizon optimal bidding strategy. It is shown that in steady state this optimal strategy generalizes a previous result for equilibrium bidding strategy in \"one-shot\" auctions."
"A firm producing a high-frequency purchased product is faced periodically with a large number of decisions involving its advertising policy. A major component of this policy is the advertising expenditure decision which specifies the appropriation of funds for advertising in various regions. In order to make a decision of that nature, the relations between advertising expenditures and sales are required. However, it is commonly acknowledged that these relations change over time as a result of the introduction of new products, changes in consumer tastes, media habits and other market factors. Therefore, an effort to induce learning and to update the parameter values of its sales-advertising model will tend to improve the advertising appropriation decision. Learning can be achieved by experimenting with the advertising expenditures in different regions and in different periods. In this paper, we attempt to construct the advertising expenditure decision model in the framework of dual control where the optimal experimentation and control are simultaneously determined. We exemplify the approach by construction of our model on the basis of actual data on a brand of children's cereal."
"The optimal pricing policy of a monopolistic firm facing random demand and maximizing its expected profit over a period of several stages is considered. The demand function is assumed to be time invariant but unknown. A special case when the cost is certain and the demand is a linear function of the price is investigated. This is formulated as a stochastic control problem. It is found that when both the intercept and slope of the demand function are unknown, the optimal pricing policy does not correspond to optimal prices for each individual stage. Approximate methods are used to find the optimal policies. Simulation results are given."
"This paper deals with the problem of enforcing standards of maximum allowable atmospheric contaminants. This enforcement has to be done by deciding whether the actual level of contaminant is in violation or compliance with the standards. Due to inherent uncertainties, a decision is to be made only if the probability of error is below a prescribed level. The measurements of contaminant are modeled as a set of lognormal random variables with unknown mean and variance. A uniformly most powerful unbiased test is developed to test their mean against a given threshold. It is shown that the test can be carried out in a very simple manner with the help of a decision chart. This is done by plotting a point defined by the sufficient statistics of the observations and reading off the decision. The estimate of the actual level of contaminant is also discussed."
"A dynamic resource allocation problem under uncertainty is considered. A specific decentralized information structure is assumed to examine on-line coordination procedures through message exchanges. First, an optimal solution for a deterministic version of the problem is obtained. Based on the optimal solution suboptimal decision rules with learning are discussed. In particular, an adaptive decision rule with active learning effect is proposed."
"The identification of dynamic models which relate power and frequency deviations on a tie line is investigated. The identification problem is posed and three identification algorithms are presented which produce least squares models with different structural properties. Equivalent realizations are identified and used as dynamic equivalents and recursively in an iterative frequency prediction algorithm. Predictive models are also identified and used as frequency predictors in a direct prediction algorithm. The identification of dynamic equivalents and frequency predictors is shown to be practical and provide information about the structure of interconnected power systems."
"This paper presents a technique for identifying unknown parameters for a dynamic equivalent of a portion of an electric power system from on-line measurements made in another portion of the system. The resulting model is suitable for use in a standard transient stability program such as those used by system analysts for evaluating the security of a proposed or existing system. The method is based on stochastic system identification using the maximum likelihood technique and relies on natural system fluctuation. This paper describes the mathematical development of a maximum likelihood identifier for a dynamic model of a power system. The resulting identification program was tested using a simulated power system tuned to match measurements made on a real system."
"This paper addresses itself to the variety of model inaccuracy problems arising in the implementation of on-line state estimation for power system bulk transmission networks. Two classes of models are investigated for which parameter estimation algorithms are derived and simulated. The first class consists of network and measurement system parameters of the system being monitored. The second class corresponds to the network equivalent parameters of all external systems. It is shown that telemetry data obtained by the internal system can provide the basis for both types of estimation. A significant factor here is the use made of scheduled and/or forced system outage information in the estimation of the network equivalent."
"Numerous articles and papers have been published in previous years on system load forecasting. These forecasts are used primarily for scheduling generation and future system development. With the development and implementation of state estimation programs, the ability to forecast on a node or bus basis seemed feasible. This paper examines a method of forecasting bus loading using the data computed by a state estimator program. This forecast is used in conjunction with future scheduled outages in a power flow program to evaluate the security of the system."
"Peak Demand model for an electric utility is formulated in terms of demographic, economic and climatological variables. Since significant correlations generally exist among these variables, conventional regression analysis cannot be used for model identification due to the problem of multicollinearity. An improved approach, using principal components, is described which eliminates the problem. The approach was successfully used at Southern California Edison Company for developing long-term peak demand forecasting models."
"The purpose of this paper is to report on a predictive control algorithm used to control power demand in the production of aluminum. The control is performed by a minicomputer system which also performs data logging and reporting [1,2]."
"In this paper a frequency-domain adaptive array structure is derived that processes data in selected regions of frequency-wave-number space to provide an MMSE estimate of a signal component of the observed acoustic field. The desired \"optimal\" processor structure is derived by appealing to the Sherman-Morrison inversion lemma to invert the sum of a diagonal noise matrix and several diadic matrices corresponding to plane-wave propagating signal and interference fields. The structure reduces to a parallel structure of beamformer-gain elements whose beamformer directions (phase delays) and gains are unknown because of a priori ignorance concerning interference directions and levels. The structure is adapted to these uncertainties by forming a stochastic approximation algorithm for the gains of several beams directed to a finite set of possible interference directions."
"An optimal procedure for incrementing the tap gains of an adaptive tapped-delay-line data channel equalizer is presented. The equalizer algorithm is a normalized Robbins-Monro stochastic approximation procedure which converges to tap gain values bounded by those which minimize mean-square error (MSE) and those which minimize median-square error (MDSE). A truncated version of the algorithm with minimum and maximum allowable values of tap gains will also converge. The problem addressed here is selection of an optimal scalar stepping sequence for the multi-dimensional stochastic search scheme; the objective is accelerated convergence. The optimal sequence derived is minimax in that maximum MSE in tap gain settings is minimized at each iteration. Generally speaking, the optimal approach is to hold step size constant initially, and to then reduce step size at each iteration."
"Automatic signal analysis procedures generally involve extracting a set of features from a signal and making decisions based on those features. For many aperiodic and otherwise difficult signals, the choice of the optimum feature set and related parameters is an arduous task. This paper describes an interactive program used for experimenting with a feature set based on modified Haar functions. Differences between the Haar features and the Fast Fourier transform coefficients are discussed. Three examples are presented concerning the use of the interactive program on different signals; a test signal, a textile yarn-mass measurement signal, and electroencephalograms (EEGs). Finally, the decision process for an Automatic Sleep Scoring Program is discussed. The scoring accuracy of 88% for this computer system compares favorably to the accuracies between human scorers."
"A theory of non-causal interpolative representation of finite discrete signals is developed. It is shown that such representations give lower mean square error, entropy and rate distortion compared to standard Markov representations. Compared to initial value Markov models, the non-causal models lead to stable boundary value problems. Relationship with Karhunen Loeve (KL) expansion and Innovation representation is established. An alternate interpretation of Wiener filter and a fast algorithm for KL transform of first order Markov sequence are given. Applications to image coding and filtering are discussed. Examples are given to illustrate the new results obtained."
"An adaptive technique is presented for the restoration of a stochastic signal which has been distorted by passage through a linear; time-invariant system with unknown transfer function. Restoration of a stochastic signal is here defined as the identification of the statistical parameters of the input signal and the re-creation of a restored signal which is statistically similar to the original signal. The restoration is tantamount to deconvolving the observed signal with the inpulse response of the distorting system. Since the required impulse response is unknown, it must be identified or learned in order to be used. Previous researchers in this area have used the term homomorphic filtering to describe forms of deconvolution similar to those used here (1-4)."
"Adaptive filters iteratively computing a correlation matrix restrict usage to stationary environments. A realization, computationally efficient and practically implementable, with microprocessors is offered. Convergence times allow for adaptive beamformers, EKG, vibrational and signal detection applications."
"The general structure of environment-sensitive manipulator control is discussed. A brief technology overview is presented on the state of the art in environment-sensitive manipulator control. Work at JPL on proximity control in manipulation, and application of articulated and adaptively controlled hand to environment-sensitive manipulator control is described. The JPL work is illustrated by movies."
"Estimation theory is used to develop a model of a human decision maker in a self-paced, visual data smoothing task. The model is basically a noisy fixed-point smoother combined with a weighting function that discounts data in relation to its distance (in time) from the point being smoothed. Experimental data is used to estimate the parameters of the model. Applications of the model to the design of information displays and man-computer interactive decision making systems are considered."
"The saccadic eye movement system is an important neurological feedback control system contributing to crucial visual information processing and decision operations in man and animals. Careful modelling of the extraocular muscles and eyeball plant as well as the reciprocal innervation controller signal patterns have enabled us to demonstrate the time-optimal nature of the saccadic movement trajectory. We here propose a pulse width modulation process for generating these time optimal saccades and present supporting experimental and modelling results."
"In this paper, we study a class of continuous-time minimax estimation problems. We derive estimates for the terminal state of a linear plant whose control is unknown and may be any control function whose energy is bounded. We show that there exists a linear minimax estimator and a simple, highly-correlated maximim control policy."
"The quadratic cost output regulators problem is considered for systems described by simplified linear models. By defining a suitable measure of the approximation between system and model, the problem is reduced to the control of the model with output affected by an error signal bounded by an input dependent constraint. A minmax approach is taken and both open loop and closed loop controls are studied and their relationships analyzed. It is shown that the feedback control cannot have a min max performance better than the open-loop one has, and a simple criterion is derived which points out when the min max performances for open loop and closed loop controls are equal."
"This paper solves a particular min-max problem where the minimizing variables not only influence the performance index but also constrain the domain of action of the maximizing variables. The problem is approached as minimization of a supremal value function. It is shown here that if a weaker form of the classical sensitivity theorem of non-linear programming holds, then directional derivatives, and in some cases even ordinary derivatives, of the supremal value function exist. The existence of ordinary derivatives is especially useful for computation purposes, in that case the min-max becomes a stationary point under equality constraints with respect to both players separately. The problem originates from a new approach for control design of a dynamic uncertain system when a bound in norm of the approximation error is guaranteed."
"This paper discusses the modeling of combat problems as minimax range, free final time and state, zero-sum perfect information differential games. The advantages of this formulation are 1) it is a more realistic representation of the combat problem, 2) no barriers occur in the resulting game, and 3) the problem is amenable to solution by a recently developed technique for generating near optimal closed-loop solutions to differential games. Two simple examples of combat problems using this formulation are presented."
"Via a 2-stage linear-quadratic 2-person nonzero-sum game, we show that such decision problems might admit nonlinear Nash solutions. As compared with the linear strategy, a nonlinear Nash policy might lead to a better performance for at least one of the players."
"Current world-wide economic difficulties suggest that there is a need for methods that lend greater insight into what econometric models tell us. It is also desirable to find simple methods for solving such models. Methods drawn from interpretive structural modeling are shown to provide a very simple solution technique for a 52-equation econometric model, and a flexible, modular interpretation of the model."
"In this paper, an example of Interpretive Structural Modeling (ISM) involving citizen's definition of factors contributing to crime is developed. Working from this example, several ideas on how ISM can be developed as a technology of social learning are explored. A suggested structure of social learning is proposed, namely dialogue, decision, action, and evaluation. This structure of social learning is an aid to the analyst in designing ISM exercises."
"The application of Interpretive Structural Modeling techniques to the generation of a goals and objectives hierarchy for the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency is described. Both manual and computer-assisted techniques were employed in facilitating construction of the hierarchy and in gaining acceptance and input by agency officials. The final hierarchy is presented, and the uses to which it has been put are described."
"Interpretive structural modeling is used to generate the hierarchy used in worth assessment. The partitioning techniques of interpretive structural modeling are extended to permit identification of a single sink digraph tree as a special type of structural model. The worth assessment hierarchy is identified as a single sink digraph tree. An example is presented to demonstrate how the extended partitioning techniques can be used in the interpretive structural modeling process to generate the worth assessment hierarchy for a higher education program planning problem."
"Interpretive structural modeling techniques are applied to analysis of the learning disabled. A 13-element diagnostic paradigm serves as the system to be modeled. Modeling is based on the judgments of a special education teacher. A digraph portrayal, resulting from a series of model-exchange isomorphisms, is developed that shows the disability configuration for each of 16 children. Advantages and disadvantages of the technique are discussed, along with possible extensions involving more sophisticated techniques."
"The study describes a method for representing open systems. Thus, and especially for decision processes, two points of view are alternatively used : - The first one connected to an outside observer, is rigorous and corresponds to closure phases. This point of view is represented by an arithmetic language, whose tools are arithmetic relators. - The second one, connected to an inside observer, is intuitive, corresponds to opening phases and involves heuristics linked to the previous language. The method is applied to an example from physics and some further developments to other fields are outlined."
"We show first how to elaborate a \"Set of Guidelines for Alternative Futures\" and discuss the difficulties in modelling complex systems. Advantages of structural cross-interaction matrix for future creative planning is explained by comparison with forecasting using for dynamic modelling. We describe how such a matrix can be used to cybernetically search for the internal conflicts it can reveal inside the object under study. The procedure used to determine the feedback loops between matrix elements is explained and we describe how the results are listed in a useful fashion. Finally we distinguish the two possible forms of action : conjectural (as in forecasting dynamic models) and structural. Structural actions are best suited for future creative planning and the structural model is the only one capable of revealing them."
"We define a class of detection-estimation problems on matrix Lie groups in which the observation noise is multiplicative in nature. By examining the differential versions of the hypotheses, which are bilinear, we are able to derive the relevant likelihood ratio formula and the associated optimal estimation equations for the signal given the observations and the assumption that the signal is present. These estimation equations are of interest in their own right, in that they represent a finite dimensional optimal solution to a nonlinear estimation problem and consist of a Kalman-Bucy filter along with the on-line computation of the solution of the associated Riccati equation, which is driven by the observations. The usefulness of these results is illustrated via an example concerning the detection of an actuator failure in a rigid body rotational control system."
"Real time failure detection for systems having a linear stochastic dynamical truth model is posed in terms of two confidence region sheaths. One confidence region sheath is about the expected no failure trajectory, the other is about the Kalman estimate. If these two confidence regions of ellipsoidal cross-section are disjoint at any time instant, a failure is declared. A test for two ellipsoid overlap is developed which involves finding a single point x* whose presence in both ellipsoids is necessary and sufficient for overlap. Thus, the overlap test is contorted into a search for x*, shown to be the solution of a nonlinear static optimization problem that is easily solved once an associated scalar Lagrange multiplier λ is known. A successive approximations iteration equation for λ was obtained and shown to converge as a contraction mapping. In an application of detecting simulated gyro failures in an Inertial Navigation System (INS), the iterations converged very quickly, easily allowing real time failure detection."
"A redundant system is one in which several different measurements are assumed to describe the same physical phenomena. This paper describes a class of voter-estimators which determines a discrete output given a group of discrete redundant measurements. The voterestimator is derived by combining least squares estimation with failure detection and isolation. This is accomplished by using weight factors which are themselves nonlinear functions of the measurements. The effect of this formulation is to filter random signal variations in individual channels while simultaneously discriminating against a failed channel. Also proposed is a method for mitigating performance degradation in the presence of successive failures. Despite the nonlinear character of the voting and isolation mechanism, the mathematics involved is of closed form and requires no iterative computations for implementation of the voter-estimator."
 "The random variables Xi, i = 1, 2, ..., K, are observed sequentially. The distribution of Xi changes at an unknown point i = J. A statistical procedure is developed that announces the change with minimum average delay, subject to a prescribed false-alarm probability. Two suboptimal procedures are mentioned, and a numerical example is given."
"Surveillance systems are often required to simultaneously estimate the trajectory parameters of several targets. This problem is complicated significantly in high target density situations since the individual data sequences required by standard estimation algorithms are difficult to form. This paper discusses certain computational aspects of assigning closely spaced sensor returns to individual tracks. We refer to this as a \"multiple choice\" estimation problem since the real tracks are generally hidden in a large set F of feasible tracks. Forming the feasible track set F on the basis of a priori knowledge of the problem is the first step on the assignment process. A subset of the potential tracks contained in F is then selected on the basis accomplished by 0-1 integer programming, as we now illustrate for a simple discrete linear problem."
"The optimum adaptive receiver for the line of sight microwave transmission channel is developed assuming that the channel consists of a purely multipath structure yielding signals received at various delays, and that the variations of the parameters of the channel are much slower than the data bit rate. The receiver is adaptive in the sense that it contains a record of the channel parameters in a memory. The time constant of the smoothing filter is adjustable. An expression for a figure of merit is developed and presented. An experimental model of the receiver is described and preliminary experimental results are presented."
"A detector structure and an adaptive algorithm are proposed for the reception of signals in noise backgrounds possessing broad-tailed probability distributions typical of impulsive noise. The adaptive detector combines the best features of linear matched filtering and hard-limiting receiver structures resulting in a small-signal SNR performance which is an improvement over either of these detectors alone. Furthermore, the adaptive detector is relatively easy to implement and provides efficient performance regardless of the actual noise distribution."
"The phase and amplitude weighting of the waveform received at each element of an antenna array can be adaptively controlled in real time to optimize the antenna pattern for a variety of communication links. In this paper we present the results of experiments conducted with an SHF self-phasing array and with an adaptive UHF null-forming array."
"The Air Force Global Weather Central (AFGWC), a unit of the Air Weather Service under the Military Airlift Command (MAC) has developed a near real-time cloud forecasting system. This system integrates conventional synoptic surface and upper air weather data with real time Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) visual and IR data into a global analysis of clouds at 15 levels from the surface to 55,000 ft. These data are analyzed numerically using high speed digital computers. Through the use of numerical models these data are then used with the latest global wind, temperature and humidity data in numerical forecast models to produce global forecasts of clouds for up to 48 hours in the future."
"Two requirements for the registration of Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) data are discussed. These requirements are registration of ERTS data acquired on separate passes and registration of ERTS data to a ground reference. Performances of a semi-automatic warp algorithm and an automatic pipeline processing algorithm demonstrate that either procedure is useful, depending upon the user's requirements. In two cases where the time elapse between passes of the satellite were 90 days and 18 days the automatic pipeline processor reduced the mean radial registration error to 0.28 and 0.58 pixel, respectively. It is concluded that this technique is promising for high volume production processing."
"We present a numerical approximation to the operational Riccati differential equation which occurs in the optimal control theory of linear hereditary differential systems with a linear-quadratic cost function."
"We shall discuss techniques for the design of feedback controllers for multivariable systems with delays. First, techniques for the design of feed-back controllers using the linear-quadratic theory will be presented. Applicability of a new method based on \"spectral decomposition\" for delay systems will be considered."
"Optimal control of a class of high-order time delay systems is considered. The mathematical description of these systems is written in such a way that whenever a scalar parameter is perturbed, the dimensionality of the system is reduced (singular perturbation). Further, the time delayed variables also will disappear from the system equations. An asymptotic power series solution of the optimal control is then developed with respect to the scalar parameter. This asymptotic control is valid for the high-order time delay system, while it is calculated on the basis of only a reduced order ordinary system. At first a scalar example illustrates the method of constructing the asymptotic expansions. Then the method is applied to an eighth order nonlinear time delay model of a coupled-core nuclear reactor system by reducing it to a second order ordinary model. Computationally, the asymptotic approximation method is compared with the second variation method and is shown to be superior."
"Four methods for identification of the parameters and time delay in a linear time-invariant system are compared. The four techniques are (1) least squares, (2) \"Extended\" Kalman Filter, (3) filtered maximum likelihood, and (4) Fast Fourier Transform. The input and output data are obtained by simulating a second order system, and noise is added to the output data. Five parameters in the system transfer function are identified: the gain constant, two pole locations, one zero location, and the time delay. The results show that the filtered maximum likelihood technique is superior with noisy measurements. All the methods identified the parameters and time delay with noiseless measurements."
"Models of urban residential land use, while intractable analytically, are readily solved numerically by computer. The model presented here replicates certain features of urban population distribution quite closely. The model is used to calculate the effects upon city structure of an optimal allocation of resources to transportation. Postwar changes and the probable effects of the energy crisis and anti-pollution measures are also explored."
"A dynamic model of the housing market is described. A prototype version is used to examine the time paths of market adjustment in response to the implementation of a housing allowance program."
"A water distribution system consists of several sources of water supplying points of demand through a transmission and distribution system consisting of a network of pipes, pumps, elevated storage reservoirs, and filter plants. In recent times, operational planning and control of urban water distribution systems is causing concern to utilities because of three important considerations. First, with the increase in size and complexity of the system, large capital investments are required for expansion of the system. Secondly, as a result of increasing power costs, water utilities have to pay high costs for pumping water. Finally, environmental constraints have contributed to difficulties in locating additional elevated storage facilities that would be required to serve the increase in demand. The overall consequence of these factors is the need for improving storage management and pump operating strategies so that operating costs will be reduced without sacrificing the level of service to consumers. This has led some utilities to install computers to improve system operation by performing data logging, alarm monitoring, report generation and supervisory control functions. Operator experience has provided the guidelines necessary to develop computer logic and to initiate control action through set points on levels, pressures and flow rates in the system."
"Several approaches for dealing with complex decision problems characterized by a multiplicity of decision makers are outlined. Earlier works of Arrow are treated briefly. A method for decentralizing a group decision problem by arranging the decision makers in a hierarchical structure is described in detail. Optimal team decisions due to Ho and Chu are outlined, and a method is described for developing the information structure by means of structural modeling. Finally a method is suggested for decomposing a large scale cooperative differential game into a number of smaller subsystems which can be coordinated by means of hierarchical systems theory."
"The growth path of a small urban economy is considered producing a single good with capital and labor. Factors move between the urban economy and the rest of the nation in response to wage and rental rate differentials. In the case of agglomeration economies a minimum urban threshold size is shown to exist below which the local economy will decay and above which it will grow."
"Optimal housing and traffic density for the redevelopment of a fixed inner ring of a city are obtained. Transportation costs include congestion. It is shown that the optimal redevelopment plan differs from a free market redevelopment pattern."
"Aquifer systems are distributed parameter systems. In this paper a system of linear differential equations is used to study head variations in an aquitard. A technique for determining the specific hydraulic diffusivity is developed."
"Using the \"partition theorem\" - an explicit Bayes theorem -- fundamentally new linear filtering and smoothing algorithms both for continuous as well as discrete data have been obtained. The new algorithms are given in explicit, integral expressions of a \"partitioned\" form, and in terms of decoupled forward filters. The \"partitioned\" algorithms were shown to be especially advantageous from a computational as well as from an analysis standpoint. The \"partitioned\" algorithms are the natural framework in which to study such important concepts as observability, controllability, unbiasedness, and the solution of Riccati equations. Specifically, they yield further insight as well as significant new results on: a) unbiased estimation and filter initialization procedures; b) stochastic observability and stochastic controllability; c) the interconnection between stochastic observability, Fisher information matrix, and the Cramer-Rao bound; d) estimation errorbounds; and most importantly, e) computationally effective \"partitioned\" solutions of time-varying matrix Riccati equations. In fact, all of the above results have been obtained for general, time-varying lumped, linear systems."
"We show here how fast estimation algorithms can be obtained by developing innovations decompositions that exploit certain shift-invariance properties of the involved processes. Such invariances are quite natural for stationary processes and can be employed through the use of backwards innovations processes to develop a set of identities for the solutions of the associated Wiener-Hopf equations. These results provide continuous-parameter counterparts of the well-known discrete recursions given by Levinson in 1947, and have many connections to the multi-faceted works of M.G. Krein. For nonstationary processes, there is no natural shift-invariance. However, we show how state-space descriptions can be employed to expose suitable invariances for nonstationary processes generated as the response to white noise of constant-parameter state models."
"We consider a class of stochastic linear systems that are subject to jumps of unknown magnitudes in the state variables occurring at unknown times. This model can be used when considering such problems as the estimation of systems subject to possible component failures and the tracking of vehicles capable of abrupt maneuvers. Using Kalman-Bucy filtering and generalized likelihood ratio techniques, we devise an adaptive filtering system for state estimation and the detection of the jumps. An example that illustrates the dynamical properties of our filtering scheme is discussed in detail."
"For an nth order constant system with p outputs, this paper shows that the Kalman filter gain can be described by np-p(p-1)/2 difference equations instead of the usual n(n+1)/2 difference equations. This is the minimum number of difference equations required for the solution of the Kalman filter gain. For the special case of stationary processes, this paper further shows that only np-p(p-1)/2 combinations of the system noise covariance enter into determination of the Kalman filter gain. The results have application in filtering and in the quadratic regulator problems."
"This paper presents a technique for obtaining a predictor of the output of a complex linear system. The predicted output is obtained by choosing a suitable combination of some variables which can represent the \"most important\" states of the system, in such a way that an easily computable bound of the prediction error is minimized. Such a bound moreover results very useful since it gives a measure of the goodness in the choice of the \"important\" states. The proposed approach seems to be attractive for its simplicity and for the fact that a bound on the prediction error can be estimated."
"Conditions guaranteeing stability of the optimal surely locally unbiased decentralized filter are derived and it is shown that the filter preserves the stabilizability of the system. It is also noted that the performance of the filter is bounded between that of the centralized filter and the decentralized filter obtained by regarding the interactions as known signals."
"Preliminary results are presented on the use of observers for interpolation in constant-coefficient, linear, dynamic systems. Two sequential algorithms, which are termed fixed-point and fixed-lag interpolators and can be implemented to operate in real time, are developed. Extensions to noisy dynamic systems and to reduced-order interpolators, and implications in feedback control are noted."
"A design procedure is presented for linear systems with inaccessible states and large parameter variations. A nominal observer structure is used in the feedback loop. The design parameters are the observer gain matrix and the estimated-state feedback matrix. The prime design objectives are an asymptotically stable closed-loop system and a minimal upper bound on an integral-quadratic performance measure. A modified performance measure is introduced which, while only indirectly related to the prime design objectives, yields a computationally feasible algorithm for the design parameters. This work extends the observer-feedback theory developed by Newmann, Rom and Sarachik, and others, for systems with no uncertainty to systems with parameter uncertainty."
"The output regulation of a system described by an approximate linear model is studied. If some measure of the approximation can be obtained, a minimax approach looks the most suitable. However, when dynamic controllers have to be considered, this approach seems to be quite involved. A solution is proposed by fixing a specific observer and looking for a minimax feedback solution on state estimates."
"The optimal control of linear systems where measurement of all the state variables is not possible is investigated from the viewpoint of observer theory. Observers whose dynamic order equals the dimension of the plant state vector are examined and necessary conditions for the optimal observer dynamics and control feedback gains are derived."
"The problem of constructing an \"observer\" to enable us to implement an approximate low sensitivity control of distributed parameter system is examined. The control is applied at the boundary of the spatial region and the part of the control which depends on the sensitivity variables and the missing state variables is implemented via the observer."
"We investigate a differential game where the decision variables of both players are sequences of impulse times and jumps on the system. We give an existence theorem of a saddle point and a complete characterization of the solution."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The basic mechanism underlying the generation of Moire' patterns in line scanner data acquisition systems is examined. A general expression is developed in terms of typical system parameters for the reproduced image of such systems and the interaction of the image spectrum; the raster frequency and digital sampling frequency of the A/D conversion process are discussed and examples given. System design requirements for avoiding Moire' pattern generation and two-dimensional aliasing are discussed."
"One method of obtaining the power spectrum of a signal is via its correlation function. In the majority of VLF studies one is interested in signal spectrograms. In the past these have been produced by a variety of spectrum analyzers operating on the raw signal, while correlation techniques have rarely been used. It is shown in the present paper that the application of correlation analysis to VLF signals on board spacecraft has many advantages, not the least being a considerable decrease in the amount of data to be subsequently telemetered to the ground. The philosophy of the on-board correlator designed for the ESRO geostationary satellite GEOS is described in detail and its performance, tested by computer simulation studies, is compared with that of conventional ground-based spectrum analyzers. It is shown how such a correlator may be utilized for recognising VLF signal patterns in the presence of noise. This type of correlator is also useful for directly studying the Poynting flux of electromagnetic waves and for investigating the propagation characteristics of plasma waves. With minor modifications, the k-vector of electromagnetic waves may be directly determined."
"Scattered 2.25 cm radar signals from an agricultural area have been found to increase 5-7 dB at angles within 45° of vertical as the radar flies from dry to irrigated parts of the same field. Indications at 75 cm are that similar effects occur, but the results are less clear because of instrumental geometry. This result was the fortuitous consequence of an overflight by the NASA/MSC earth resources aircraft at a time when a group of fields was in the process of receiving irrigation water, so that the same field contained both dry and wet soil areas. Implications for use of radar as a sensor of agricultural areas are that determining soil moisture requires incidence under 45° and avoiding soil moisture effects requires incidence beyond 45°, at least for the low vegetation in the sample fields."
"Measurements of the intrinsic noise of a second harmonic flux-gate magnetometer have been performed in the 0 Hz to 5 Hz bandwidth. The digital Fourier analysis technique was adopted to extend the spectrum analysis to the very low frequency range. The dependence of the r.m.s. noise on drive current and the frequency spectrum of the noise at the operating drive level have been studied."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
  "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Multiple Removal Procedures based upon tapped delay line models for the reverberation are derived and applied to data taken during the NSF-IDOE-East Atlantic Continental Margin Program. The effectiveness of these models are analyzed by, i) determining the amount of reverberation energy removed, ii) evaluating the distortion of underlying horizons, and iii) comparing record quality before and after processing. Programs based upon these models have been implemented as operational production programs and are currently being used aboard the R/V Atlantic II during the EACM studies."
"Results are presented of measurements of the performance of Savonius rotor type instrumentation being used for high resolution current profile studies in the Straits of Florida. The instrumentation housing is designed to hold the rotor horizontally during a profile measurement of the water column, but internal and external forces act to displace the profilers from their designed horizontal axis and introduce errors into their measurement of current velocity. The necessity for determining the occurrence and magnitude of these errors prompted this investigation into the effects of tilt on a Savonius rotor exposed to a turbulent flow regime, plus the development of an instrument to measure rotor inclination. Although the rotor tested was not a true Savonius rotor and actual velocity profiles are not uniform, the results are believed to be applicable to similar instrumentation. Significant differences in tilt effects between the measurements in this study and previous results were observed. Recommendations for reexamination of housing designs and careful calibration under controlled conditions are included."
"To study the possible use of the radar backscatter coefficient for purposes of vegetation inventory a series of measurements was undertaken on radar ground returns. Single vegetation species were studied. Use was made of stable platforms (television towers) with the radar at an altitude of 75 m above the terrain. The influence of weather and season was investigated. It was shown that a single vegetation type behaves as a Rayleigh scatterer. The radar backscatter coefficient as a function of frequency and polarization proves to be the only usable classifier to classify vegetations with the aid of radar."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
  "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An overview of measurement techniques, measurement results, and factors influencing the conductivity and dielectric constant of earth medium is given. Application of these measurement techniques to geophysical investigations is also discussed."
"Magnetotelluric field measurements were carried out at two geothermally interesting locations with two Superconducting QUantum Interference Device (SQUID) magnetometers. The tests demonstrated the very attractive combination of characteristics of these instruments for geophysical magnetic measurements. They have noise levels down to 10-14 T/ Hz½ (10-5 gamma Hz-½); frequency response from 0 to several kHz; dynamic range of at least 160 dB; and in addition are portable and easy to set up in the field."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
  "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Geomagnetic pulsations are a class of fluctuations of the earth's magnetic field in the ultra-lowfrequency (ULF) band (i. e. .001 Hz to 5 Hz). Pulsation amplitudes in this band range from milligammas to tens of gammas (1 gamma = 10-5 gauss). Pc 1 pulsations occur in the upper part of this band (.2 Hz to 5 Hz). Until the recent availability of superconducting magnetometers, Pc 1 measurement instrumentation had been internally noise limited. This paper briefly describes conventional Pc 1 instrumentation, and then goes on to describe a working measurement system incorporating a superconducting magnetometer. A good conventional system is compared experimentally to the superconducting system, and the noise of the latter system is seen to be significantly lower. Further, measurements taken with the superconducting system show that the noise in the conventional system can obscure weaker events in the Pc 1 band."
"The performance of three stereo radar techniques is compared with respect to both theoretical performance and performance in the presence of errors. The three techniques are: an improved single flight technique, a previously proposed single flight technique, and a two flight technique. Theoretical data for comparison of image parameters affecting perf ormance have been generated with computer simulations of the imaging geometries for the techniques. The comparison shows that the improved technique will have images with greater similarity resulting in improved stereoviewability and measurability. Computer simulations have also been used to generate sensitivities of computed terrain point coordinates to system errors. These sensitivities are shown and overall error comparisons are made for assumed error values. These comparisons show that the improved single flight technique has the best error performance of the three techniques for the assumed reasonable set of system errors. This technique is followed by the previously proposed single flight technique and then the two flight technique."
"An experimental system is described which utilizes pseudo-noise (PN) and cross-correlation techniques to characterize subsurface conducting bodies such as those pertaining to natural resources. The system is essentially an extension of the loop-loop, transient-electromagnetic, induction systems used in ore prospecting. In lieu of a low duty-cycle pulse, this system transmits a wide-bandwidth PN digital waveform. The mapping signature is obtained by cross-correlation of the received signal with a replica of the sounding PN waveform. The receiver also averages several signatures to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. This type of system has the potential advantages over previous transient systems of using smaller antennas and requiring less transmitter power for more portable operation. Preliminary field data is shown and discussed for a high conductivity dike of ilmenite magnetite and for the surrounding low conductivity anorthosite. Frequency response data is obtained digitally via the Discrete Fourier Transform operation on the time domain signatures. Interpretations are given for both time and frequency domain representations."
"A versatile digital electronic drawing aid is described for assisting an operator in scribing map originals from stereo-orthophotos. These photographs permit the user to see an accurate, stable, and uniformly scaled stereo image of the earth's terrain. Direct measurement, planning and mapping within the stereo image is achieved with a simple instrument called a Stereocompiler. The drawing aid described has options that the operator of the Stereocompiler may use to facilitate the plotting of planimetry, contours, symbols, and the typescribing of alphanumeric annotation on map manuscripts while viewing the stereo image."
"The facsimile and other display systems used with acoustic radars do not perfectly answer the requirements of real time soundings, principally because of the low pulse repetition frequency of the sounders. The survey of the capabilities and limitations of these apparatus led to develop a new device using a length and thickness modulation - L. T. M. system - of the trace on a storage C. R. T. monitor. This system, without mechanical parts, joins the advantages of the oscilloscopic methods - easy triggering of the sweep. and no maintenance - with those of the facsimile - real time display, possibility of getting paper copies. The main characteristics of the L.T.M. system are given as well as pictures of acoustic soundings thus obtained."
"The limitations of a stabilizing scheme for multidimensional filters via Hilbert transform are discussed. The source of trouble is linked to a multivariable factorization problem."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
  "Presents abstracts for the articles comprising the conference proceedings."
"A finish system providing corrosion protection for subsurface transformers is exposed to severe and variable environmental conditions. For example, it can be subjected to temperatures as high as 125 °C, wet and dry soils, and soils'containing fertilizer, salt, and other chemicals which affect the resistivity and pH of the soil. The coating can also be subjected to severe cathodic and anodic disbonding conditions that result from electrochemical reactions caused by the presence of copper groundings and zinc or magnesium anodes. The advantages and disadvantages of several finish systems used for subsurface transformers are reviewed in their relationship to these severe environments."
"The harmonics in the air gap magnetic field of saturated single-phase induction motors with uniform or nonuniform stator teeth and cores are analyzed using two-dimensional Fourier series. The analysis shows that when the fundamental backward-traveling and forward-traveling magnetic field waves are saturated they produce saturation harmonics having several different velocities, frequencies, and spatial harmonics. The saturation harmonics for an applied 60 Hz voltage can include 180 Hz and 300 Hz waves with spatial harmonics equal to the number of pole pairs, which create 180 Hz and 300 Hz components in the current drawn by the motor. Current waveforms are shown which demonstrate the saturation effects."
"The analysis of the magnetic field distribution in conducting slabs in the presence of current carrying conductors and the calculation of eddy-current losses is presented. Integral expressions of field quantities have been developed for filamentary current sources and loss formulae established. A new approach to minimization and division of losses between composite shields is described. The equations are solved on a digital computer for different cases. Curves are plotted for several applications for practical use. An optimum thickness of shield for minimum power loss is also established."
"This paper studies the statistical performances of multi-break circuit-breakers. For the thermal reignition regime, a formal proof is given of the fact that under certain conditions (explicitly derived) the overall performance of a multi-break breaker is better than that expected from a proportional extrapolation of the results from a single break. For the dielectric regime, it is shown that the hitherto published formulas are conservative in the sense that they overestimate failure probabilities. Using these formulas, graphs are given which compare the failure probabilities of a four-break breaker in the dielectric regime with that of a single break under certain given fractions of the stress on the complete pole. Some general results of a statistical nature relating complete circuit breaker failure probabilities in the dielectric regime to a single break failure probability are also given."
"Analysis of the eddy-currentproblem in magnetic structures by the method of Finite-elements is presented. The linear diffusion equation representing the appropriate energy functional is described. The field region is discretised by triangular Finite-elements and the solution to the field problem is obtained by minimizing the energy functional with respect to each of the vertex values of the vector potential. Expressions for the magnetic field, electric field and eddy-current losses are presented. The method is applied to a few cases of engineering interest and compared with results of classical analysis and tests."
"Stepped-field, thyristor-controlled induction machines combine the reliability of thyristors with the robustness of squirrel-cage induction machines."
"Economic considerations often limit the use of full-scale 3-phase test lines for the investigation of transmission-line corona effects. Testing of a large number of different conductor configurations can be more conveniently and efficiently carried out on comparatively short sections of conductors on single-phase test lines and in test cages. Techniques for measuring the single-phase corona performance of conductors are presented, along with a discussion of means by which the observed data can be used to determine the corona performance of 3-phase transmission lines."
"For the first time, load quantities consisting of maximum demands, 1 diversified demands, coincidence factors, daily load factors, monthly load factors, annual load factors, loss versus load factor relationships, and responsibility factors are developed for distribution transformers serving residential central air conditioning customers. Weather information and over three million values of load versus time data were recorded on magnetic tape to be used as basic input information for the analysis. A non-linear multiple regression analysis program was created to generate the correlation equations and determine the index of multiple correlation, index of multiple determination and standard error of estimate for each load quantity. Weather sensitive variables, energy usage, number of customers, number of central air conditioning units, and customer living patterns are incorporated in the regression equations."
"The electrical characteristics of a 150 km 500 kV transmission line during single-pole switching is simulated on a hybrid computer. A time dependent arc simulation aids in the study of the voltage occurring across the arc and the recovery voltage during single-pole switching. The accuracy of the simulation is verified by comparison with field tests. The simulation is also used to investigate the transient recovery voltage following a bolted, sudden release fault. This investigation reveals that the transient recovery voltage is markedly larger than the steady-state value and that, for a normal three cycle clearing, it is a function of the time that the fault occurs. The simulation of the transmission system established in this paper may be used to advantage in determining the dead time necessary to insure extinction of the secondary arc current. Moreover, the results set forth should serve as guides for engineers designing systems for single-pole switching."
"Ground electrode resistance measurements are usually done by Fall of Potential method. The potential probe position (0.618 rule) has been calculated for homogeneous soil 1,2]. Theoretical computation and experimental verification of the potential probe position in non homogeneous soil is presented. The experimental work was carried out on a twin layer laboratory model [3,4,6]."
"This paper describes the basic design of two types of damped capacitive voltage dividers. The impedance characteristic of the voltage divider and of the complete measuring circuit is discussed. The actual response characteristics of damped capacitive voltage dividers are surveyed and the possible application evaluated."
"This paper reports onaresearchofphenomenaassociated with core loss due to tooth ripple flux in smooth laminated poles for the open circuit condition in ac machines. A model for investigation of the phenomena is described, incorporating a calorimetric technique for determination of loss location. There is also described a method for evaluating losses by utililizing a mathematical model which encompasses materials characteristics of the lamination material. Loss prediction and experimental results are in excellent agreement."
"Recently a decision was made to rewind a 1OOMW, 13.8 kV hydrogenerator which had been in service for about fourteen years. The statqr insulation on this generator was an early version of \"Thermalastic\", a synthetic resin vacuum impregnated mica insulation. Prior to removing the coils from the machine a series of ionization probe and tangent delta measurements were made. Selected coils, including all coils from one parallel string of the winding Were then subjected to detailed laboratory investigations. In this paper, the relation between ionization probe readings and tangent delta tip-up values is demonstrated. The effect of time of voltage application on ionization probe readings, tangent delta, and capacitance is investigated, and the importance of standardizing the time of voltage application prior to these measurements ments is emphasized. In view of the length of service encountered, the condition of the; insulation was thought to be very satisfactory."
"In order to improve the characteristics of a bridge-rectified synchronous generator, the number of stator phases is increased. This paper discusses the basic theory of this machine, which turns out to be ati interesting cross link between the DC commutator and the AC synchronous machine. A mesh connected stator winding is found to be preferable to a star connection and the stator thus becomes the equivalent of a conventional DC armature with each previous commutator bar replaced by two diodes. Commutation is now initiated by the mainpole and the commutation zone changes in width and location as a function of load. Consequently, commutation has a major influence on the required excitation and the general characteristics of the machine. The theory presented is based on the general MMF distribution in the airgap and deals with actual non-sinusoidal quantities. The theory is also adaptable to brushless DC shunt and series motors with an optional compensating winding. Part II discusses a numerical example in detail."
"The usefulness of the previously derived equations for commutation phenomenons and other related characteristics is demonstrated by means of a numerical example of the Salient Pole and Constant Airgap type machine. These two limiting cases bracket the characteristics of an actual Salient Pole type machine including the pole edge fringing flux. The results are discussed and commented upon in detail."
"This paper provides an introduction in the application of Waste Processing Systems in the Westinghouse Pressurized Water Reactor plants. These systems employ the techniques of waste product concentration, long term storage, recycling and radiation monitoring in order to implement the basic philosophy governing radioactive releases established by national and international guidelines. In the United States, the limits of radioactive release are established by the Code of Federal Regulations of the Atomic Energy Commission."
"In the chopped impulse test of a transformer, a steep voltage collapse appears across the terminals of the transformer to be tested. This paper clarifies the wave shape of the voltage collapse during chopping and the requirements of a device for measuring the voltage collapse."
"Controlled rectifiers are often incorporated in closed-loop systems. To determine the small signal performance of such systems the rectifier must be appropriately modelled. The paper reviews the existing models and compares their step response performance, Nyquist plots and stability boundaries. It is shown that a recently developed discrete model that takes into account the commutation angle is in good agreement with experimental results. The rectifier transfer function is obtained and the large signal non-linear behaviour discussed. A rigorous mathematical dynamic model developed is capable of describing both the small and the large signal response of the system."
"The High Voltage Laboratory of Hydro-Quebec Institute of Research (IREQ) has been designed to cater for research and test requirements on equipment for future systems of up to 1,500 kV rms nominal transmission voltage. Some of the factors which were considered during the planning of the laboratory are described. A number of problems which required unusual solutions are mentioned, and in addition, descriptions of the major items of test equipment are given."
"The conductors in the earth-grid of a large electric power station must withstand for the maximum fault duration, current due to the worst case unbalanced fault. The fault duration and the worst case fault current may be calculated by well known means. However, the division of fault current when it is injected into the earth grid is difficult to determine with confidence. The authors describe a scale modelling experimental technique, which can yield improved data on the division of fault return current within an earth grid. Some results are quoted taken on a 1 : 400 scale model of the earth grid of the Liddell power station of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, Australia."
"Published data on sparkover characteristics of high-voltage protective gaps with 50-200 cm spacings have been reviewed and statistically analyzed. The results are presented, including: volt-time curves for times to sparkover up to 8 Ms, average critical sparkover gradient for various types of gaps for lightning impulse and for switching impulse, and average sparkover gradient for power-frequency voltage. Wherever justifiable, 95 percent confidence intervals are also given."
"This paper describes the Potomac Electric Power Company's experience in trying to provide very reliable microwave service over a troublesome path through the use of 6/12 GHZ crossband frequency diversity techniques. The results indicate that no measurable improvement was achieved over space diversity techniques in the face of multipath fades and that rain fades on the 12 GHz frequency make its operation unacceptable."
"Nuclear power plants are rapidly assuming a major role in supplying the world's increasing demand for electric power. The saturated steam conditions of light-water reactors favor the use of 1500 or 1800 r/min turbines with four-pole generators which are already being built in ratings up to and even exceeding 1500 MVA. Recent developments in gas-cooled reactors give rise to an additional need for 3600 r/min turbines with large two-pole generators."
"This report describes analyses and field measurements to determine modal parameters for power line carrier (PLC) propagation on double circuit power lines. These parameters are used in a computer simulation to predict the optimum coupling for PLC operation. The results are compared to measured values."
"In order to provide adequate surge protection for underground cable circuits, particularly at system voltages above 13.2 kV, the riser pole arrester discharge voltage must be held to relatively low values. The surge impedance voltage drop of lead wires connecting arresters between line and ground adds to the arrester discharge voltage, and as a consequence influences the total transient voltage that can enter the cable circuit. Because of this it becomes essential to know, quantitatively, the effect of lead wire lengths on total voltage."
"The article deals with different aspects of the electrical design of HVDC lines. On this subject a synthesis has been effected based on results of experiments and long term tests carried out during the last few years in Gothenburg, Sweden."
"A technique is presented for applying a burden to a current transf ormer being calibrated in which the power and reactive volt-amperes are returned to the supply rather than being absorbed in a passive network. The transfer is accomplished either by the magnetic shield if a compensated current comparator is used as the ratio standard, or by an auxiliary current transformer in circuits which employ other standards. Electronic circuitry provides the necessary volt-amperes for exciting the magnetic shield of the current comparator or the auxiliary current transformer, and the current transformer being calibrated, to produce the desired power transfer. The circuit requirements are analyzed and equipment which can develop burdens with both in-phase and quadrature components up to 10 ohms, at secondary currents up to 10 amperes, and for a 0.6 percent accuracy class current transformer or better, is described. The burden setting, which is independent of current, may be made by in-phase and quadrature dials to an accuracy of about one percent of full scale."
"The demands for electrical power generation capacity have increased significantly in recent years. This paper covers the manufacturing of uranium dioxide nuclear fuel (UO2), for use in commercial nuclear reactors presently used for electric power generation. It explains in detail, the manufacturing and processing steps associated with the conversion of uranium hexafluoride gas into UO2; the compacting of UO2 pellets and the assembly of fuel rods and fuel assemblies. This paper can be described as a walking tour through a typical nuclear fuel fabrication plant."
"The effects of earthquake ground motion on transmission lines are analyzed. It is shown that structures may be treated as rigid for design calculations with conservative results and that the forces due to structure acceleration are very minor. The forces on supports of insulator strings and conductors are well within structure capability when designed in conformance with National Electrical Safety Code."
"Tests were performed to evaluate the switching impulse (S.I.) breakdown voltage of tower window models of different sizes. Window models were tested with positive polarity S.I. and with conductor-to-structure clearances of 4.55, 5.90, 7.60 and 8.75 meters. With each size of model the 50% breakdown voltage was determined for seven different wave-fronts with a time-to-crest between 60 and 800 ps and a half-amplitude time over 3500 ps. The time-to-breakdown was also recorded and correlated to the time-to-crest of the applied wave and the breakdown voltage."
"The paper relates the voltage escalation due to repetitive reignition occurring when interrupting the inductive current by vacuum switches, and offers a new theory quite different from those recognized hitherto on the generating mechanism. It also shows that a CR Surge Suppressor is effective for suppressing the voltage escalation."
"This paper presents the problem of overvoltage due to three-phase simultaneous interruption using vacuum switches. This three-phase simultaneous interruption is a new phenomenon which has not been known before. This paper presents the realities of over-voltage due to three-phase simultaneous interruption and the cause of three-phase simultaneous interruption. Surge suppression by the CR Surge Suppressor and Nonlinear Resistor which has been recently developed are also presented."
"The dc dielectric recovery method has been used extensively to study processes in post-current-zero arc columns in circuit breakers. This paper describes recovery experiments in air at atmospheric pressure following arcs drawn between butt and cone-shaped electrodes of different materials and surface profiles for contact gap spacings of 2 mm and 1 cm. The experiments were carried out with 400 pusec duration current pulses between 10 A and 1000 A for reignition voltage between 300 V and 30 kV. A statistical recovery experiment was performed using the Normal Approximation to the Binomial and Probit analysis methods to determine the standard deviation of the recovery data. The experiments show that recovery is faster: (i) with Ag-CdO contacts than with any other material tested, (ii) with flat contacts than with those having a high-point at the contact center and (iii) with cone-shaped rather than butt contacts. These results are then related to ac interruption, and are explained in terms of physical processes related to: (i) the electrodes, such as thermal properties of electrode materials or contact surface properties; (ii) the gas, such as density reduction and ionizing and electron-attaching processes; and (iii) magnetic pumping and looping effects."
"A practical and efficient method is presented for the economic dispatch of generation with explicit recognition of line security limits. The linearized or dc loadflow approximation is used to formulate the line security limits as linear inequality constraints on the generator outputs. The optimization problem is solved by the method of gradient projection. The proposed method does not require a great deal more computation time or system-state information than the established method of dispatch which is unable to recognize line security limits. In consequence, the method gives power control centers with only moderate sized dispatch computers the potential for recognizing line security limits in their economic dispatch and thus obtaining improved security and economy in system operation."
"A practicable modern type of HVdc control system is modeled dynamically on a digital computer. The simulation interfaces with dynamic simulation of converter action, the ac system and the dc system. Applications have included harmonic studies, fault analysis and multi-terminal dc systems, in addition to control circuit development and optimisation. An example is presented of a multi-terminal system study in the context of dc fault behaviour with dc circuit breakers included. The detailed control simulation can be simplified for certain dynamic studies."
"This paper presents a new approach to the problem of improvement of transient stability of a power system by means of optimal control of transients and is in continuation of the work reported in a previous paper.1 Essentially the system state is transferred from that at the beginning of the transient to a post-transient steady state in a nonoscillatory manner by means of a bang-bang control, thereby contributing significantly to the improvement of transient stability. A power system model with two interconnecting tie-lines is considered. It is shown that the control process may be implemented with two intermittent duty series capacitors or a capacitor and a reactor. Results of the synthesis of the optimal controllers and evaluation of realistic indices of performance are presented along with practical considerations."
"This paper reports experimental data on parameters which affect the flashover voltages of a contaminated insulation surface in fog conditions. An attempt has been made to interrelate the effect of the wetting rate with the density of the inert binder and the effect of the density of the binder itself on the flashover yoltages, the subject on which previously reported experimental data are in contradiction. A theoretical model has been developed which predicts dry band growth and temperature distribution along dry bands. It has been found possible to relate the conclusions of the experimental study with those of this model."
"This paper dtscusses the environmental report requirements for nuclear power plant construction and operating permits. The current guidance furnished by the Atomic Energy Commission is discussed and the implications regarding timing and possible criticisms by the public are pointed out. Examples from current licensing and permit hearings are discussed in the context of how to minimize the conflicts that might arise."
"The power supply system will be described. Operating problems due to West Berlin's \"island\" situation and siting problems when adding new generating plants are shown. Design and specifications of various gas turbine plants are given. Distinctive features of two types of turbines will be described."
"High-impulse current and voltage measurement in high-voltage technology and plasma physics is generally accompanied by high-level electromagnetic interference. This paper gives an analysis of various avenues of conducted and radiated interference entry showing that cable braid and cabinet currents represent major source of interference. A better understanding of interference propagation leads to the systematic evaluation of counter measures which can be undertaken."
"This paper contains a brief outline of the principal elements of the 5225-MW Churchill Falls hydroelectric power development, together with a review of the significant electrical features. It describes the 500-MVA generating units, the arrangement of busses, transformers and 240-kV cables used to transmit energy from the underground powerhouse to the surface, the 735-kV switchyard, the auxiliary power system, protective relaying, control and annunciation schemes, and the data logging computer installation."
"The installation of compressed gas insulated transmission systems are a relatively new construction practice. Background, technical data, installation methods and testing procedures are presented. Construction and installation procedure modifications are given."
"The Dielectric strength of SF6 gas and 3-core type CGI cables when inter-phase switching impulse voltages of different polarity are applied were experimentally studied. Parallel cylinders and a sphere-plane electrode were used to obtain the data of SF6 under uniform fields."
"An infinitesimal element, whose impulse breakdown stress follows Weibull distribution, is assumed in cable insulation, and integrated in tangential, radial and longitudinal directions. As a result, it is clear that the impulse breakdown stress of cable sample with a certain length also follows Weibull distribution."
"The disc motor is a brushless, reluctance-principle; rotating machine that has been developed to the prototype stage for traction and variable speed drive application. It is attractive for these and other applications because of a simple magnetic structure which has potential for very low assembly costs, and because it can be controlled over a wide range of speed and torque by thyristor circuits of comparable simplicity to the chopper circuit used with do traction motors. The motor theory is briefly discussed and laboratory measurements of machine performance is presented."
"Representing the cage winding of a polyphase induction motor as a set of mesh circuits results in the rotor being faithfully modelled by a simple symmetric matrix. The application of a new transform reduces the model to its two-axis equivalent with novel expressions for impedance, which avoid many of the complications of other methods of cage winding simulation. The derived impedance expressions are rigourously applicable to machines which are unbalanced to the extent of having non-integral numbers of rotor bars per pole-pair. No assumptions are required about the magnitudes of rotor currents and all harmonics can be included."
"A study is made of the effects of nontransposition on the performance of transmission lines. A non-transposed, lumped parameter model is presented. The dependence of line parameter values on frequency up to 6 kilohertz is developed and is used to calculate model parameter variations with frequency. It is concluded that nontransposition and frequency dependent models are necessary to design accurate transmission line models. The results are used in a companion paperl as criteria for transmission line model design."
"A criterion is presented and evaluated for establishing the relation between section length of a transmission model and the desired accuracy over a frequency band. This criterion along with those established in a companion paperl are used to design a transmission line model. The details of the design are presented. Test results made on a newly constructed model are presented to establish the validity of the design criteria."
"The ampacity, or current-carrying capacity, of a buried power cable is determined to a large degree by the effective thermal resistance of the earth to the heat flowing from the cable to the ambient earth surface. Often the heat passes through sharp discontinuities in the earth, where the thermal resistivity changes. Analysis of the thermal circuit in such cases can be performed easily by means of the computer program presented in this paper. Calculations are based on a resistive network model of the thermal path between cable and ambient earth surface."
"This paper discusses those tests believed necessary in both factory and field to assure safe and reliable performance in a sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) gas insulated system. Design tests on prototype components, routine factory production tests and field tests immediately prior to placing the system in service are discussed. Primary emphasis is given to dielectric testing, because of the importance of dielectric considerations to system integrity. Actual test experience on five installations now in service is discussed."
"This paper concerns the trigger performance of Marx circuits and shows the essential features of an improved circuit. It is studied how the introduction of parallel spark gaps PF and firing capacitors CZ in a multi-stage impulse generator can improve the trigger performance. Other advantages of the new circuit will also be discussed."
"The magnetic repulsive force which arises between a secondary short circuit ring and a primary coil through which short circuit current flows was used for a new magnetic puffer gas circuit breaker. A floating piston type magnetic puffer circuit breaker showed much success in experiments and the examples of theoretically calculated results together with a fixed piston type magnetic puffer circuit breaker are shown by the authors for the first time. It is proved that the interrupting performance of SF6 gas circuit breakers is much improved with the addition of a simple magnetic drive mechanism as shown in the following."
"A method for calculating the components of a synthetic circuit for the testing of ac circuit breakers is presented."
"This paper discusses American Electric Power Service Corporation's laboratory and analytical work on the production of oxidants in AC; corona. The test program was oriented toward determination of the production rates of oxidants (mainly ozone) in a broad range of temperatures and humidities, and at a variety of surface gradients."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Some recent transformer failures have been attributed to part-winding resonances excited by a form of switching surge voltage pulse which produced internal overvoltages. This paper takes a tutorial approach to relate a transformer winding to an equivalent electrical network which can exhibit resonant effects both at its terminals and internally. The relationship between the resonance phenomenon and pulse response is explained and illustrated with practical examples for the standard test waveforms. A proposed alternative switching surge waveform is examined for its effect on the internal response of transformer windings. The material presented should promote the understanding required for consideration of changes in standard test waveforms."
"This paper discusses the testing requirements and results of the tests on the proposed designs for the 525-kV self-contained oil-filled cable systems to be installed for the first three transformer circuits at Grand Coulee Third Powerplant. Details of the test assemblies, methods, controls, measurements, problems, and results are given for tests that: confirm the cable system rating; prove electrical and thermal stability; demonstrate handling capability and mechanical integrity; compare 50 Hz and 60 Hz power factors; and assure satisfactory operation at ambient temperatures as low as minus 27° C."
"An increasing number of 4-pole steam turbine-driven generators are being ordered each year by utilities and with steadily increasing unit ratings. This paper discusses rotor cooling for 4-pole generators and shows that gas conductor cooling can be applied to unit sizes far in excess of those now being built. In particular, the radial flow system of cooling, very successfully applied to date, has capability for steam turbine-generator rotor cooling for units forecast for the 1980's."
"HV DC transmission schemes can have system conditions in which the ac system is in resonance with the ac harmonic filters at particular harmonics of the supply frequency, and these resonances may be excited by transformer magnetizing inrush currents, generating overvoltages at the ac busbars of the HV DC convertor station. In the case of a rectifier station, supplied directly by generators with no local load, these overvoltages may be as high as twice the rated voltage and may exist for many cycles of the supply frequency. This effect is examined in this paper and the results of many thousands of model tests are included."
"A 5 MVA superconducting generator has been tested and the design performance has been achieved. The test results demonstrate the feasibility of applying superconducting electrical machinery to central station power plants and to ship propulsion systems. The testing and operation of a superconducting generator required a test facility with a number of features which are not normally found in a test facility for conventional electrical rotating machinery. The instrumentation and control systems are described, and the methods of operation and testing are discussed. The results of these tests and their significance are discussed."
"A method of calculating voltage oscillations in transformer windings during impulse test is presented."
"When calculating transient oscillations in transformer windings one has to know the self and mutual leakage inductances for sections of windings. This paper presents a method of solving this problem when the iron-core is taken into account."
"Switching-surge tests were performed on three basic station insulations: horizontal insulator strings, station post insulators, phase-to-phase air clearances between buses. The influence of different geometrical parameters was investigated."
"This second biennial committee report covers results of a survey of electric power engineering educational resources at eighty-five ECPD (Engineers Council for Professional Development) accredited schools in the USA for the academic year 1971-1972. It includes a listing of faculty active during the subject year, their academic involvement and professional experience, together with information on student enrollment in various subject matter, degrees granted and research funding, support and activity.(1-2)"
"Part I of this paper describes the extensive field verification program and results for the prequalification and acceptance by short-circuit through-current testing of 15/20/22.4 MVA, 67/12.47-kV, or 66/17.2-kV, three-phase medium power transformer designs purchased in quantity from many vendors for general use on the 69-kV subtransmission system of Southern California Edison Company. Particular emphasis has been given to applying the proposed IEEE Power Transformer Short-Circuit Test Code procedures and proof of satisfactory performance."
"This paper, as a companion paper to another which describes testing procedures and results, summarizes Southern California Edison's experience with the low voltage impulse technique and measurements as a diagnostic tool in correlating electrical results with anticipated internal conditions within the test transformer."
"This paper presents various design aspects of monopolar metallic return with particular reference to the operation of the Pacific NW-SW HVDC Intertie in this mode. Discussion includes the design considerations involved in determining the capacitor size, protective gap duty, insulation level required at the floating end, location of the grounding at the grounded end, additional control and protection required, etc. The paper then presents practical results of such an operation of the Intertie. Disadvantages and justifications of using monopolar metallic return are also discussed."
"In designing a protective scheme and circuit configuration for distribution circuits, it is desirable to quantitatively compare the performance of distribution circuits for various alternatives. The indices used for such comparison must be sensitive to the number, type, and location of protective devices, to circuit exposure, and to restoration practices. Four reliability indices are defined in this paper. An analysis technique is presented which evaluates the four reliability indices for any given distribution feeder in a logical and consistent manner. A digital computer program employing the above analysis techniques is applied to a sample problem which demonstrates the effectiveness of various protective devices and operating practices in terms of the reliability indices."
"The firing of a HVDC thyristor valve, where several hundred thyristors are interconnected in a series-parallel combination, presents a number of fundamental problems related to the generation, transmission and reshaping of the signal. This paper presents an analysis of these problems and proposes a cable firing system suitable for HVDC thyristor valves. A calculation method of evaluating the system performance and an optimization of the system parameters are given. Also, experimental results are presented which show the actual performance of the proposed firing system on a 150-kV, 600 A thyristor valve."
"With a view to realizing plastic-insulated power cables for extra-high voltage, the improvement of insulating characteristics of polyethylene was investigated by impregnating microvoids in polyethylene insulation with an electronegative gas which is superior in insulating performance to air. In this study diffusion and dissolution into polyethylene of various gases with outstanding insulating characteristics were investigated, and AC and impulse tree-starting voltages and AC breakdown voltages of gas-impregnated polyethylene were improved."
"This paper traces the evolution of standards for alternating current high voltage circuit breakers in the United States from approximately 1900 through 1972. It reviews differences in rating principles and application methods in the \"total current\" and \"symmetrical current\" basis of rating standards and outlines some of the new areas of circuit breaker standardization now being developed in industry committees."
"Experimental results are presented on the normal and short circuit operating characteristics of metallic shielded solid dielectric power cable. Test data on thermal runs of single conductor shielded power cable under typical installation conditions confirm published ampacity data1, and hence the theoretical procedure2 employed for calculating the ampacity of single conductor cable with circulating current losses. The thermal runs also point out the possible adverse effect on the cable of operating at a high interface temperature for an extended period of time."
"Development of a new porcelain suspension insulator with a semiconductive glaze and improved shape is described. The development was carried out jointly by Ontario Hydro and Canadian Porcelain Company. These new insulators provide considerably improved performance under wet and contaminated conditions and thus allow the reduction of insulator string lengths, facilitating conversion of existing 115 kV lines to 230 kV operation, and development of compact high-voltage transmission line designs."
"This paper presents experimental results on the statistical properties of ac and dc breakdown field strength of compressed SF6. The experiment is performed on four gaps of different electrode area, ranging from 0.2 cm2 to 3000 cm2. Patterns of breakdown characteristics are classified into four categories depending on the type of distribution and the characteristics of conditioning effect. The criterion of the transition of these categories are discussed quantitatively."
"The more important requirements, and the design features developed to meet these requirements, are discussed in detail for the first three 525-kV oil-filled underground cable systems to be installed for the transformer circuits at Grand Coulee Third Powerplant. The cable systems will bq of the self-contained type and will be energized in 1974, the first at this voltage for commercial operation in the U.S.A. Consideration of unusual parameters such as the 600 feet (183 meters) elevation difference between terminals, installation in a 6-foot (1.83-m) wide tunnel, ambient temperature range from minus 27°C to plus 45°C, 1,800-kV cable B.I.L., along with insulation and accessory requirements for 525 kV, provided many unique design features that will be applicable to other similar projects, in addition to those with less stringent requirements."
"This paper describes a method of computing harmonics and waveforms in HVdc conversion, taking into account interaction with the ac system, dynamically. The perfbrmance of filters tuned at a nominal frequency is examined when the ac system frequency varies. Computed values of harmonic currents and voltages are presented and the influence of the ac system short circuit ratio is demonstrated. Harmonic magnification can occur due to resonance effects, but the system is harmonically stable."
"This paper presents wind-tunnel measurements of ozone and NOx production rates for single and bundle transmission line conductors in dry and wet corona. Ozone production rates reported in the literature for transmission line and fine wire corona, together with the authors' results are summarized as a function of the maximum surface gradient factor. Numerical calculations estimating the ozone levels near actual 775-kV test transmission lines at the Apple Grove 750-kV Project are presented. It is concluded that pollutant concentrations generated by conductor corona on present EHV transmission lines are too low to be deleterious to the environment."
"This paper presehits the results of further developments of 138-kV cable impregnated with extra-high-viscosity oil, as well as those of joining aluminum conductors and terminal ferrules by the inert gas shielded arc welding method. Welding the conductors in the presence of heavy oil had presented the chief deterrent to commercial utilization of cable containing alumliinum conductors. Success of these investigations has resulted in installation of a 2.74 mile (4.41 km) portion of The Detroit Edison Company Medina-Stephens 120-kV line, commissioned in November 1971. That installation is reported upon herein."
"This paper presents the transient analysis of the new harmonic current elimination method by analog simulation. The analysis has made clear that the new method has the desirable cancellation effect of harmonic currents both in the steady-and transient-state."
"Today's power systems tend to cover whole continents and the density of transmission facilities is continuously increasing. A disturbance produced in one point propagates to remote points of the system, it may be reflected at the boundaries and standing waves may build up. To obtain better insight into such phenomena, the complex power system is represented as a continuum, with transmission capacity and machine inertial uniformly distributed. One and two dimensional propagation are examined and analogies with travelling and standing electromagnetic waves are established. Propagation velocity and characteristic impedance are calculated. Resonance, and reflection-free terminations, acting as dynamic equivalents of surrounding systems, are also discussed as applications to the general theory. Results with the continuum representation are compared to those obtained for a discrete model to confirm the validity of the method."
"This paper concerns the numerical evaluation of transmission line transient response using travelling-wave methods in which the effects of frequency dependent parameters are taken into account. Transmission line behaviour is considered in terms of forward and backward response functions, special emphasis being placed on the latter, which is introduced because of the time dependent nature of the line characteristic impedance. Relatively simple formulae are derived so that both response functions may be included in a general purpose computer program without difficulty. The validity of the approach is confirmed by comparing results with those obtained from the modified Fourier transform method."
"Water trees are considered to be one of the main reasons for faults of polyethylene-insulated cables. They are found in service and laboratory. It is confirmed that they are caused by the co-existence of both electric field and water. Their formation would reduce breakdown strengths of cables. Dielectrophoresis is concluded as a possible mechanism for the aggregation of water around the high electric field regions. It may be followed by the formation of water trees. The growth mechanism of water trees is discussed and temporal countermeasures against them are referred to."
"This paper concerns itself with the time-optimal control of large oscillations in power systems by bang-bang excitation control. The determination of the instants at which the control is switched from one level to another and the application of such a piece-wise constant control to a tenth order nonlinear model which includes the effects due to field time lag and damper bars and the dynamics of exciter and govternor are the principal aspects of the paper. The results show that as compared to the normal proportional voltage regulator the bang-bang control effects more efficient damping of the system. Significant improvements are seen in the rate of response and the number and amplitudes of oscillations. The enhancement of the critical clearing time due to bang-bang network control is inidicated. It is hoped that the approach to the bang-bang control outlined in this paper would serve as a guide to future system studies on discontinuous control."
"This paper reports the results of a laboratory study on radio interference ( RI), television interference (TVI) and audible noise (AN) of insulator strings for transmission lines of 154- , 275- and 500-kV classes. When insulators are contaminated and wetted, RI, TVI and AN becompe pronounced. The RIV, TVI and AN from insulator strings that were artificially contaminated with salt and kaolin were measured under artificial fog. Also, investigated were the ratio of TV signal intensity (S) to insulator noise intensity (N), and its degree of interference to TV picture."
"Existing methods for calculating corona losses on monopolar and bipolar dc transmission lines have resorted to the assumption that the space charge of corona does not affect the direction of the electrostatic field. This assumption was aimed at making the calculations possible. In this report corena loss calculations are made in which this assumption and others are replaced by correlating tlie corona space charge density to the avalanche growth inside the ionization zone at the high voltage conductor. This approach seems to be more realistic, gives better agreement with experiment and needs much less computer time."
 "Foul weather corona have been observed to behave differently at temperatures above and below the freezing point1.2. Generally speaking, the discharge activities are much more intensive at temperatures above than below the freezing point. Such behaviour of the discharge is so far associated with the differences in the physical properties of water in its liquid and solid phases. No detailed study has, however, been made to correlate the discharges characteristics with the macroscopic changes in the water drop over the freezing temperatures range. In the present study, the development of corona discharge at a watet drop in a cylindrical field was investigated during its transition from the liquid to solid phase. This was done by correlating the discharge current with variations of the water drop temperature. The results obtained show that the noise generation and energy losses are related to both the corona discharges in the surrounding air and to the continuously changing conditions at the water drop during its transition into ice (and vice versa)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Dommel-Tinney approach to the calculation of optimal power-system load flows has proved to be very powerful and general. This paper extends the problem formulation and solution scheme by incorporating exact outage-contingency constraints into the method, to give an optimal steady-state-secure system operating point. The controllable system quantities in the base-case problem (e.g. generated MW, controlled voltage magnitudes, transformer taps) are optimised within their limits according to some defined objective, so that no limit-violations on other quantities (e. g. generator MVAR and current loadings, transmission-circuit loadings, load-bus voltage magnitudes, angular displacements) occur in either the base-case or contingency-case system operating conditions."
"The paper describes a method for evaluation of power flow which takes into consideration uncertainty of node data. The essence of the method is that the net loads are given as a set of values together with additional information on the frequency of its accuracy. The described mathematical model and the practtical application are discussed and an example given."
"A self-controlled synchronous machine drive system consists of a frequency converter, a control loop utilizing ashaft angle sensor as the primary control input, and a conventional synchronous machine. The static and dynamic characteristics of the system are similar to those of a dc machine."
"Comparisons are made between operating tests on 555 MVA turboalternators, and computer simulations of these machines connected to a complex power network. The simulations were performed using two sets of alternator stability data -one set calculated on the basis of standard ANSI definitions, and the second set derived from appropriate field measurements on the alternators, using frequency response techniques."
"Models of a synchronous machine for use in stability studies have been derived by measurements off-line at standstill. The method involves accurate determination of magnitude and phase of the impedance as seen at the stator terminals, for a range of frequency from 0.005 to 100 Hz. The data obtained pertains particularly to establishment of parameters for equivalent rotor circuits of varying degrees of complexity."
"This paper describes the analytical and experimental studies on a variable speed dc shunt motor driven by a single phase full-wave rectified power supply using SCRs. The studies comprise torque-speed characteristics and system stability. The expressions derived in the paper can be gainfully employed in designing such speed control circuits."
"Combustion gas turbine driven generators, now widely used for both utility and industrial power generation, require output characteristics that are properly matched to the prime movers' capabilities at varying ambient temperatures as well as the varying turbine combustion temperatures. This paper reviews the requirements for securing such a match and the methods of determining the operating capabilities of such generators, as proposed for the forthcoming ANSI Standard C50,14."
"Several examples are presented to illustrate the ease with which the fundamental principles underlying transient inrush currents, ferroresonance phenomena, neutral instability, and series capacitor induced self-excitation in generators can be demonstrated experimentally in the fractional horsepower machinery laboratory described in an earlier paper."
"The MEDIA digital process control system providing a comprehensive approach to computer control, centralized display, and operator intervention is briefly reviewed. This system consists of a range of modules for encoding individual measurements, generating individual loop control functions, and adjusting individual regulating elements on a continuous basis without using sampling techniques."
"This paper presents an economic dispatch procedure for allocating generation in a power system by the use of the Jacobian matrix. The major advantage of the procedure over other optimal dispatch procedures is its inherent simplicity and rapid convergence behavior which are characteristics particularly omportant for on-line implementation. Results obtained from an investigation of its convergence for the 118 bus IEEE system are given. Comparisons with the classical approach are conducted and logic for on-line implementation is presented."
"This paper presents the results of a statistical anaylsis of conductor corona generated audible hoise as measured at the Apple Grove 750 kV Test Project, a joint field investigation sponsored by the American Electric Power Service Corporation and the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. A comparison of simultaneous audible noise data is made on three sizes of four conductor bundles [diameter of 1.382 in. (35.1 mm), 1.196 in. (30.4 mm), 1.0 in. (25.4 mm)]. Also a correlation is given of simultaneous readings of audible noise, radio noise and corona loss."
"The steps in t he applied voltages of a three-phase, inverter-induction motor drive system cause undesirable pulsations in motortor By using multiple inverters connected to a multiphase machine with appropriate winding displacements, significant improvement in system performance is possible. The winding displacements required, however, are not necessarily the symmetrical displacements used in standard multiphase machines. This paper sets forth an improved method for analyzing many types of unsymmetrical, as well as symmetrical, multiphase induction machines. The simulation of a 7.5-hp induction machine with two three-phase sets of stator windings fed from two six-step inverters illustrates the application of the method of analysis and shows how the machine torque characteristic may be improved by proper spacing of the winding sets."
"The classical two-axis model of the synchronous machine governed by Park's equations is expanded by' viewing the magnetic-field couplings along each axis as multiports characterized by typical matrices whose elements are pertinent open-circuit, short-circuit, hybrid parameters and system functions associated with specific port constraints. Four equivalent state models are presented. A hybrid dynamical model that uses the \"constants\" of the machine and represents rotor currents and fluxes by equivalent voltages is developed in the forms of state equations and analog computer representations as well as phasor diagrams based upon ignoring armature dynamics."
"This paper describes a simple, very reliable and extremely fast load-flow solution method with a wide range of practical application. It is attractive for accurate or approximate off-and on-line routine and contingency calculations for networks of any size, and can be implemented efficiently on computers with restrictive core-store capacities. The method is a development on other recent work employing the MW-Θ/ MVAR-V decoupling principle, and its precise algorithmic form has been determined by extensive numerical studies. The paper gives details of the method's performance on a series of practical problems of up to 1080 buses. A solution to within 0.01 MW/MVAR maximum bus mismatches is normally obtained in 4 to 7 iterations, each iteration being equal in speed to 1½ Gauss-Seidel iterations or 1/5th of a Newton iteration. Correlations of general interest between the power-mismatch convergence criterion and actual solution accuracy are obtained."
"Zero-sequence frequency dependent parameters for a transmission line with both ground wires and earth return paths and the effects of nontransposition are modeled on an analog transmission system simulator. The effects of this detailed modeling on the overvoltages experienced by a 200 mile 765 kV transmission system. link are investigated, for a variety of switching surge and fault initiation operations, in terms of the resulting overvoltage probability density distributions."
"Various types of insulators have been energized with ±250 kV dc voltage and exposed to natural conditions by the seaside continuously. Salt deposit density and flashover phenomenon of these insulators have been investigated extensively for about two years. According to the results obtained so far, the influence of dc voltage application on the salt deposit density was not so notable as expected, while the effect of insulator types on the voltage withstand strength was greater than anticipated."
"A quick, reliable and new method for solivng the load flow problem in electrical power systems is presented. It is called the decoupled voltage vectors and Newton's method. The method has advantages over Newton' s method in terms of computer storage, speed and reliable convergence. It also has advantages over all other known methods in terms of computer storage, and is as reliable convergent and accurate as the voltage vectors method."
"This paper summarizes practical problems associated with electromagnetic currents induced by high voltage transmission lines. It deals with the safeguards necessary to counteract these currents and develops a method of calculation of electromagnetically induced voltages and currents."
"The radio interference from high voltage transmission lines is generally measured using either the CISPR or the ANSI type of instrument to give the quasipeak value and in some cases also the peak and average values, of the interference. However, because of the random and uncorrelated nature of corona generation on the transmission lines, the analysis of radio interference propagation can be made only in terms of rms quantities. In order to resolve this apparent inconsistency between the measurement and analysis of radio interference, the response of the conventional radio noise meters to random pulses is investigated using digital computer simulation. Some results are verified using a hybrid computer simulation, which represents more closely the detector output circuit of a radio noise meter. The results show that as the degree of randomness, both in amplitudes and separation intervals, of the pulses increases, the quasi-peak value becomes roughly proportional to the rms value. It is also shown that it is possible to predict, even with greater accuracy, the rms response of the radio noise meter from the measured quasi-peak and average responses."
"Extensive impulse breakdown tests on long air-gaps show that the coefficient of variation C = σ/U50% × 100% depends on the form of the impulse. Tests were performed on three different gaps of 3, 5.90 and 8.75 meters long. The value of C for each form of the impulse was estimated by applying approximately 700 shots at appropriate voltage levels. The procedure used allowed C to be estimated with a confidence interval, at the 95% level, in the order of ±0.1 C."
"The paper discusses some of the limiting factors associated with the asynchronous operation of synchronous generators. Expressions of the various quantities required for the theoretical analysis are derived on the basis of an idealized model of a generator which is connected to an infinite bus. The generator is assumed to be operating at a constant slip. The results obtained from the experimental investigations which have been conducted on a 5 kVA salient-pole synchronous generator under asynchronous operation, are presented. These experimental results are used to verify the validity of the model used for the theoretical analysis. The theoretical analysis is then applied to study the behaviour of a 45 MVA hydro-generator and of an 82.5 MVA turbo-generator when operating asynchronously with different modes of the field winding connections. Comments are made on the nature of the variations of asynchronous power, armature current, pulsating power, reactive power demand, field current and field voltage as functions of slip."
"As part of a general study on the possible use of UHV transmission lines in the range of 1200 kV for the James Bay Project, the corona performance of four conductor bundles -6 ×1. 823\", 6 ×1. 998\", 8 ×1. 63 \" and 8 ×1.823\"-has been studied in outdoor test cages under conditions of heavy artificial rain and fair weather. The radio interference, audible noise and corona losses of the four conductor bundles have been measured in the test cages, and the corresponding long line levels have been evaluated. The results show that of the four bundles tested the 8 ×1.63\" conductor bundle gives the best corona performance. However, ice loading conditions may dictate the use of a six conductor bundle, in which case the 6 ×1.823\" conductor bundle seems to give a marginally acceptable corona performance."
"This reports the development, testing, installation, and operation of 69Kv ungrounded neutral tee joints for a crosslinked polyethylene (XLPE) cable circuit, which is the sole supply for a downtown urban renewal area in Lexington, Kentucky. The total circuit length is 3030 feet, consisting of three sections, the longest being 1630 feet. Conductor connections were made with a heat-fusion process. Joint dielectric consisted of self-amalgamating ethylene propylene tape. The circuit has been in operation since the late Spring of 1971."
"Optical and electrical measurements of positive impulse discharges, in a point-to-plane electrode configuration, have been performed for electrode spacings ranging from I to 7 meters. A comprehensive analysis of these results indicates that the breakdown mechanism above 5.2 million volts (MV) differs from the mechanism operating at voltages below this level. A new extrapolation method for breakdown voltages levels above the measurable range has been developed. This method permits the determination of positive impulse breakdown voltage for very large gap spacings up to 14 meters, well above the maximum capabilities of presently available voltage sources. This study provides essential data contributing to a feasibility study of future UHV overhead systems."
"Security evaluation is becoming an important part of power system operation. This paper presents a feasible pattern recognition approach to security evaluation in power systems. The evaluation problem is defined in the framework of pattern recognition and methods to obtain security functions are outlined. Simulation results on steady state and transient securities of the CIGRE 225 kv system are included."
"Numerous polyethylene (PE) and crosslinked polyethylene (XLP) cable samples recovered from the field after one to seventeen years of service have been studied in relation to treeing phenomena. Special test circuits for laboratory growth of electrical and electro-chemical trees have been developed. Based on numerous tests, general recommendations for minimizing the treeing effect in PE and XLP cables as well as for testing these cables for tree development have been made."
 "The determination of two-dimensional magnetic flux distributions in electrical machines and apparatus such as motors, generators and transformers usually involves regions of air, other non-magnetic materials and magnetic materials. The effect of such material inhomogeneity on the structure of the matrices which numerically model the physical problem, and the effect of that structure on the convergence of iterative schemes for the solution of the simultaneous equations, is examined in this paper. A block iterative procedure which takes advantage of the matrix structure resulting from the inhomogeneity is described."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
   "Solar flares can trigger severe fluctuations in the earth's magnetic field, termed geomagnetic storms. Geomagnetic storms produce quasi-dc currents in 60 Hz electric power systems. These spurious dc currents caused tundesirable equipment and system operating effects. A moderately severe geomagnetic storm occurred on August 4, 1972. The effects of that storm on electric power systems in the continental United States and parts of Canada are documented and related to latitude, geological factors, and intensity of the recorded geomagnetic field variations."
"Geomagnetic field fluctuations produce spurious, quasi-dc currents in power systems. The currents enter through system grounding points, and are of sufficient magnitude to cause half-cycle saturation in power transformers. These currents have been recorded and are summarized, and recommendations made in the significant problem areas of system disturbances and equipment effects due to geomagnetic storms. The major problem areas include increased VAR requirements and shifts in VAR flow, system-voltage fluctuations, generation of harmonics, protective relayiing misoperations, and possible localized internal heating in transformers. Recommendations relating to these effects have Pot been published previously."
"The instrumentation methods and testing procedures utilized to obtain dynamic forces, displacements, pressures, and mechanical strains on a full-size 19.5 MVA three-phase, three-winding oil-filled power transformer is presented in this paper. Each phase of this transformer was constructed with different insulating materials and different clamping methods; one of these included an externally adjustable hydraulic clamping system. The data obtained on this transformer will add new and fundamental knowledge of the effects of winding prestress, clamping methods, insulating materials, and tap arrangements on the dynamic characteristics of large power transformers during short circuit. This first paper will form the foundation for the data presentation and analysis to be presented in later papers."
"A new technique has been developed for the measurement of the spatial distribution, at the electrode surface, of the current in a moving arc. In the case studied, the arc is driven by a. transverse magnetic field between two parallel electrodes. The technique is however also applicable to a gas blast arc. The technique is based on the measurement of the variation of the magnetic flux inside a cavity located below the electrode surface. This variation of the magnetic flux is shown here to be related to the spatial distribution of the current in the arc. The frequency response of the measuring system has been determined experimentally and is taken into account. Applications to circuit breakers are considered and discussed."
"As a result of full scale indoor operational ice tests performed in the Spring of 1973, it became apparent that high voltage air disconnecting switches built and tested under current ANSI standards will not perform satisfactorily when coated with 3/4 (1.9 cm) inch of ice and operated with a motor mechanism. It was also demonstrated that one motor operation both opening and closing under iced conditions is a piactical requirement and is within the design capabilities of most switch manufacturers."
"The feasibility of employing heat pipe cooling in an A-C Induction Motor has been demonstrated with the successful analysis, design and construction of an experimental motor. The heat pipes were integrally designed into both the rotor and stator of the motor allowing the heat absorbing section (evaporator) of the heat pipes to be placed as close as possible to the points of heat generation. The experimental portion of this effort demonstrated the thermal effectiveness of this configuration as well as supplying verification of a prior thermal analysis of this type of motor. The overall performance indicated the motor is applicable for adjustable speed operation at constant torque through an seven-to-one speed range as well as producing information on the operating characteristics under varying load and frequency conditions."
"A substantial number of situations exist in modern technology where windings are an etched copper laminate. These windings are characterized by a rectangular cross section and are in a smooth air gap bounded by materials which may have widely different relative permeabilities. In this analysis Rogowski's method of air gap analysis has been combined with the winding function concept proposed by Robinson and utilized extensively by Schmitz and Novotny. General formulae for air gap fields and winding inductances are presented."
"The accuracy of watthour meters on resistance loads controlled by silicon controlled rectifiers is discussed with particular reference to operation in the overload range of the meter. Test results for representative meters are shown and an explanation offered for observed characteristics."
"The problem of unreasonably complex process wiring in large power generating stations and in continuous process plant can be overcome in two ways by using telemetry systems, firstly for Data Acquisition from each section of the plant to the corresponding control room, and secondly for Data Transfer between interlinked control rooms."
"The Cabora Bassa-Apollo HVDC Transmission is the first UHV dc long distance transmission system using thyristor valves. The overvoltage protection and insulation co-ordination for the terminal stations of this systemaredescribed. It is shown, how the specific requirements of the thyristor valves for strict and reliable overvoltage protection have been solved by direct surge arrester protection with reasonable insulation levels of the valves and the other HVDC station equipment. The selection of post and suspension insulators used in the d.c. section of the HVDC station, which is fully outdoor, is described as well."
"Published as work in progress, this document presents pertinent information regarding recommended design for and practices concerning the location, mounting, preparation and installation of large stationary lead storage batteries, including special requirements for nuclear power generating stations. This document was affirmatively balloted by Station Design Subcommittee of Power Genetation Committee, SC-4 working group of NPEC and other representatives of the industry for presentation as \"work in progress\". As a result of this ballot, several concerns in the area of qualification became evident. After consideration of these concerns and additionat comments from the industry, this document was revised and will be submitted to IEEE Standards as a recommended practice. A separate document will be initiated to cover qualification."
"The principles of a new high speed bus differential relay which operates for an internal fault condition within 1 to 2 ms and initiates tripping of circuit breakers in about 7 ms is described. The relay is self-powered and requires no auxiliary voltage other than that needed for the output tripping and alarm functions. It is shown to be insensitive to remanence and saturation of current transformers and to systems fault levels and X/R ratios."
"With the publication of IEEE Guide P 383 For Qualification Testing, it is appropriate to present typical data relating-to this document, and to briefly discuss its significance. Designed life performance for nuclear stations must be predicated for the most part on test data obtained from cable systems under simulated environmental conditions which are peculiar to this application. This paper presents data in the areas of (1) long time exposure to moisture at elevated temperature, (2) air oven heat aging, (3) simulated reactor radiation during normal operation as well as during and after a design basis event, and (4) flame testing of cables."
"This paper presents a technique that simulates load and generation changes and outages of transmission lines and transformers. The modification of power injected into the system buses, which would simulate the outage of a transmission element, is calculated using the sensitivity matrix of the basic system state. The real and reactive power flowing in the system elements and voltages at all the system buses are then computed. The proposed technique has been applied to the Saskatchewan Power Corporation system andto the combined SPC and Manitoba Hydro systems. The power flows and bus voltages calculatedby the proposed technique are compared with those obtained from the Newton Raphson load flows."
"Consideration is given to the various energy transfer processes that dominate the interruption at current-zero of an arc in a gas blast breaker. Processes considered in some detail are Ohmic heating, radial thermal conduction, radial thermal convection, radiation transport, and viscous heating. A numerical model is developed based on the time-dependent energy equation describing these processes. A discussion of initial conditions for such a model is given ancj preliminary results are presented."
"In this paper the dynamic interactions between mechanical and reactive modes of machines in a multi-machine power system are investigated. The dynamic interactions are expressed in terms of machine angles, transient voltages, and coefficients which are functions of system parameters and operation conditions. The effect of the dynamic interaction can be examined by the electric torque loci on the A6-Aw phase plane. It is found that the interaction between the mechanical modes of machines has significant effect on stability characterized by the natural mechanical oscillation frequency and damping of individual machines."
"A synthetic valve test facility employing a unique low voltage off-commutation scheme has been constructed for the development and testing of Liquid Metal Plasma Valves for HVDC transmission. The installation is capable of testing valves up to a voltage and current of 200 kV and 1800 A, respectively. It possesses a high degree of operational flexibility and is able to closely simulate the working duty of converter valves used in HVDC terminals. The operating characteristics of the test installation have been illustrated."
"The steady-state analysis of a three phase induction motor with a pair of back to back connected thyristors in each line is presented. A mathematical model suitable for the analysis is developed. The model retains the stator currents unaltered, whether the neutral is connected or not. This facilitates the application of current constraints introduced by thyristors and of boundary matching conditions needed for the steady-state analysis. State space modelling is employed and the initial condition vector pertaining to steady-state is obtained directly. The need for digital simulation of the characteristics of thyristors and integration from arbitrary initial conditions are avoided. The method is well suited for digital solution, easy to programme and fast in execution."
"When harmonic effects are of significance, direct algebraic analysis permits the determination of machine current, voltage and torque waveforms with extremely hiclh efficiency. Unfortunately, this efficiency, which permits large savings in computational time over alternative methods, has only been employed in simple situations because of the enormous labour involved in deriving the initial algebraic equations. The availability of an algebraic compiler, FORMAC, has permitted mechanization of this initial phase of the analysis so that general analvtic results are now available. The validity of these equations has been experimentally verified by considering two typical cases, the wound rotor induction motor and the three-phase synchronous machine, and two particularly demanding situations, the single-phase synchronous machine and an induction type machine with single-phase primary and secondary windings."
"This paper describes the requirements and the design basis considerations used for supplying offsite power to offshore floating nuclear plants, Atlantic No. 1 and 2. Considerations for the on-board electrical system are discussed. Different types of bulk power transmission systems are under consideration in order to fulfill both the transmission and offsite power requirements."
"The response of a Kaplan hydraulic turbine to load perturbations is explored by considering the case of a singlehydraulicunitconnectedto an equivalent system."
"This paper describes the load response characteristics of two hydro-electric plants having relatively complex hydraulic layouts. The results of plant response simulations are used to illustrate the way in which plant design features influence the role that hydro-electric plants can play in the response of the power system to generation deficiencies. In particular, it is emphasized that the setting of plant operating and reserve policies must involve careful consideration of plant hydraulic characteristics if the inherently good response characteristics of the hydraulic turbine are to be used to the full."
"A relatively broad based investigation into treeing phenomena is described, including the results of needle tests, microscopic examination of long lengths of cable removed from service measurement of the moisture from service, measurement of the moisture permeability of insulations and microscopic inspection of moisture accelerated deterioration produced in the laboratory."
"Single-pole switching is investigated on a 150 km, 500 kV transmission line using a hybrid computer simulation which has been verified by comparison with field tests. The effects of transpositions along with changes in the neutral and shunt reactors are studied. Also, a detailed representation of a synchronous machine is incorporated with the simulation of the transmission line to study the effects of single-pole switching upon the electrical and mechanical transients of the machine. This method of representation offers a means of predicting the instantaneous torque as well as the couple-frequency rotor currents during single-pole switching."
"Physical parallels of transmission lines with communication circuits and railroad signal circuits cause induced voltages which may interfere with normal operation. Due to the demand for more efficient uses of existing rights-of-way, and to the trend toward higher line currents and voltages, such parallel problems will become more frequent and more difficult. This paper recommends a system approach to the problem in which candid discussion, mutual understanding and a willingness to adopt new techniques can benefit both utilities. New limits are discussed, new computational techniques mentioned, and the general subject of inductive coordination is covered. Shielding, protection systems and substation problems are examined."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Stratified earth effects on wave propagation are investigated using a three-layer earth impedance with arbitrary earth resistivities, pemeabilities and permittivities. Significant differences are observed between the homogeneous earth and stratified earth cases. It appears to be necessary to account for the stratification of a real earth in the calculations of frequency-dependent parameters."
"The need for ultra-rapid fault interruption is identified on the basis of improvements to generator stability and the power transmission capability of the BPA 500 kV system. The development of a modified 500 kV air blast circuit breaker and a special fault sensor, which in combination should reduce total fault duration to essentially one cycle, is then described."
"Large size thennal units are subject to a number of partial outages due to their multitude of components and auxiliaries. These derated states should be correctly included in the generation system capacity outage probability model. Virtually all static capacity planning studies utilize a binary representation of the generating units. Any type of approximation; representing partial outages as full outages, neglecting partial outages or an equivalent forced outage rate EFOR can result in significant error. This paper investigates the quantitative effects of accurate derated and approximate EFOR representation on the possible expansion of a generation system."
"The problem of estimating the network and other parameters of a power system using on-line telemetry data is considered. It is demonstrated that parameter inaccuracies can cause important limitations on on-line state estimation. This can be corrected by processing collected on-line data in an off-line mode to estimate inaccurate parameters. A recursive filtering-type algorithm is derived for this purpose. Simulation results indicate the feasibility of parameter estimation and the effectiveness of the derived algorithm."
"This paper describes a 19 month field investigation made during 1971 and 1972 by the IIT Research Institute for the Commonwealth Edison Company to determine if high voltage transmission lines generate measurable quantities of ozone."
"This paper defines a mathematical model which simulates the growth of a power system and determines the least cost expansion plan for a system of distribution substations. A new approach employing linear and integer programming is used to optimize the system's substation capacities subject to the constraints of cost, load, voltage, and reserve requirements. The model has been successfully applied to a 1600 square mile urban area served by 70 distribution substations."
"This paper deals with the determination of optimum parameter values of conventional load-frequency regulation of interconnected power systems. It is shown that the control performance is rather insensitive to changes of the parameters in the vicinity of their optimum values. On the other hand the optimum value of the bias parameter depends strongly on the weighting factors used in the penalty function, as well as on the numerical data of the power system model. The importance of such sensitivity considerations is discussed in connection with the recommendation made by Elgerd and Fosha to have a bias setting which is lower than the natural frequency characteristic of the controlled area."
"A minimization algorithm is presented as applied to the optimal load flow problem. Lagrangian multipliers and Newton's method (with the Hessian matrix replacing the Jacobian) are used. The method provides good convergence behaviour and requires less storage than other methods."
"Work on widely different quad and triple conductor bundles has established a non-dimensional characteristic relating ratios of adjacent subspans to nodal positions for a fundamental mode of subconductor oscillation. A good correlation has also been shown between nodal positions relative to spacer dampers and their damping performance as measured by logarithmic decrements. The performance of a given spacer damper in a given mode was improved by a factor of four to five times by correct choice of spacings. Consequently, a method of comparative field testing for spacer dampers is indicated. The experimental results have been satisfactorily predicted by a theoretical approach."
"The usual procedure for the optimal design of linear regulators for synchronous machines is to minimize a chosen quadratic cost function subject to the system dynamics constraints. However, the optimal control synthesized in such a straightforward fashion is unsatisfactory, since it is dependent on the particular choice of system control parameters made by the investigators. Furthermore, in practice, there may be a departure of these parameters from their nominal values. In an attempt to resolve these difficulties, the paper presents a method of synthesizing optimal control in such a way as to minimize a certain cost function, while choosing the system controllable parameters in the region of near-zero sensitivity. Considering a three-machine system as an illustrative example, this method is used as a basis for the selection of voltage regulator gains. It is shown that choosing the gains in the region of low sensitivity of the optimal cost function enhances the system transient response. The method is simple and is capable of handling multi-parameter sensitivity analysis in the framework of optimal control."
"The results of artificial contamination tests on a variety of porcelain and glass suspension insulators are presented together with a discussion of the contamination and fogging procedures. The results are presented in an analytical form that can be related to a theoretical flashover criterion. Semiconductive glazed insulators were tested and compared to normally glazed insulators of the same type."
"Field tests have confirmed that properly designed excitation control can extend the dynamic stablity range of machines. A new type of stability compensation, described in a companion paper, has been successfully applied. Application of this new equipment is made possible by the installation of a modern solid state high performance excitation system. Field tests conducted on a 733 mVA generator have shown that this compensation, applied to the excitation system, is effective in extending the stability limit of the machine beyond the limit obtainable without compensation."
"Motors of modern design have less tolerance to overloads than their predecessors. In addition, present-day applications tend to utilize the maximum capability of motors. Induction -motor stator insulation or rotor bars may be severely damaged by over temperature due to repeated starts, locked rotors, cyclic loads and other conditions for which existing overload devices do not provide adequate protection."
"The application of metering-accuracy coupling capacitor voltage transformers to SF6 insulated compact substations presents the probleni of initial parameter change due to the enclosure of the coupling capacitor in a ground shield. Additional parameter changes may be caused by operating conditions which impose an unfavorable temperature gradient on the coupling capacitor voltage divider."
"HVDC load breakers using AC circuit breakers combined with parallel circuits are proposed. The choice of parallel circuitry depends upon the kind of AC circuit breaker used. When using non linear (temperature dependent) resistors great improvements can be achieved in counter voltage generating and energy absorbing capabilities, as compared to earlier circuits using commutating capacitors and silicon carbide resistors. Switching units and suitable bypasses are investigated in details. Test circuits for testing the commutating switches and for testing the complete HVDC load breaker are also treated."
"A method is described for commiting generators and scheduling their output so as to comply with environmental objectives such as limitations on emission of oxides of sulfur, oxides of nitrogen or discharge of heat into watercourses. The limitations may apply to emissions or to resulting ambient concentrations and may apply simultaneously to more than one type of residual. The method depends on the use of monetary conversion factors. For each set of environmental objectives and each system load level, minimum operating costs are achieved. The examples presented are based on the characteristics of the generators in the Israeli power system."
"The normal operation of a surge arrester by a lightning stroke or switching surge requires the arrester to conduct currents, first limited by the system surge impedance and arrester resistance, and then, limited by short circuit impedance and arrester resistance. These currents, whose magnitude and duration are a function of the source impedances and arrester characteristics, can, when the surge impedances are unusually low, pose special problems of durability for the arrester. Some applications where such low surge impedance can exist are tapped and multi-line stations, transferred surges from high to low side, high voltage cables, and large shunt capacitor banks. Arrester performance based on varying surge impedance, as well as system voltage and arrester characteristics, can be explored through laboratory prorated tests and translated into useful application data for all transmission voltages."
"A 3-meter rod-plane gap was tested with double exponential switching impulses of different front times. The front of each of the impulses was subsequently modified so that it rose steeply to a certain level of the original front and then followed the basic non-modified impulse. This front modification made it possible to study the influence each region of the front has on the 50% breakdown voltage and the standard deviation of air-gaps. From the results obtained it was possible to detect the region of the front which mainly affects the breakdown parameters. Based on these results, a new definition of the switching-impulse front is proposed providing concrete information about the response of a gap when subjected to an impulse with a given front."
"A new method is proposed in this paper to solve a single-stage expansion problem for a transmission network, given future generation and load patterns, and alternative types of lines available, subject to overload, reliability and right-of-way constraints. The problem is formulated as a series of zero-one integer programs which are solved by an efficient branch-and-bound algorithm. Complexity is reduced by the concepts of optimal cost-capacity curves and screening algorithms. A sample study is shown and the method is implemented in a computer program."
"The convolution theorem of Fourier transformation theory provides an \"exact\" solution to the representation of frequency-dependent line constants of distributed-parameter transmission lines. This paper emphasizes modelling aspects crucial to accurate and efficient numerical solution by digital computer, as part of a production electromagnetic transients program. Sample results simulating a field test are included."
"The scope of static ac drives is increasing rapidly, and with this increase has evolved the need to devise control strategies for a variety of new applications. Purely analytical approaches to design of control systems for ac drives are hindered by the highly coupled nature of the ac induction motor equations which, in the past, necessitated lengthy manual derivations of transfer functions. This paper presents an alternative approach using a state variable formulation. The equations are arranged in a form such that the entire derivation procedure can be relegated to a digital computer. Transfer function poles, zeros, and gain for any practical input-output pair of variables can be rapidly obtained."
"In order to clarify the water treeing, the authors conducted a series of experiments on three types of specimen, namely, sheet samples, wires and cables."
"This paper covers the results of investigations of the various electrical characteristics of 10-in porcelain suspension insulators with a semiconducting glaze. The runaway withstand voltage is shown almost proportional to the number of insulator units in a string. To get an almost uniform distribution along a string the impedance of the units should be lowered as the number of the units increases. Runaway withstand voltage characteristics under adverse condition and margin against working voltage are also examined. The performance of contaminated semiconducting glaze insulators under cold switch-on condition is quantitatively investigated."
"A new type of series compensation for the improvement of the dynamic stability of an excitation control system has been successfully developed and tested. The device serves to compensate for the adverse effects of the underdamped complex poles which, mathematically, characterize the dynamic behavior of a synchronous machine operating at high loading and high torque angle. Results of factory tests described in this paper and field tests described in a companion paper confirm that the compensation is very effective in extending the operating stability limits of a generator; stable operation at torque angles greater than 110°has been achieved."
"A new two-phase reluctancetypegenerator, suitable for dc loads, is described. The generator consists of four magnetically decoupled circuits assembled on the same bedplate, with the rotors mounted on the same shaft but displaced from each other by 90 degrees. The rotor and stator pole faces are shaped to yield predetermined inductance functions. The machines are analyzed under different excitations and load conditions, including rectifier and battery loads. A correlation with the experimentalresults is presented."
"This paper presents an approach to predict ground-level electrostatic effects from overhead power transmission lines using the voltage gradient at ground level. Objects like vehicles and animals are represented by Norton equivalent networks. The advantages in using this method are 1) accuracy in predicting induced short-circuit current, Isc, open-circuit voltage, Voc, and capacitance of object to ground, Cog, and 2) simplicity in needing only simple slide-rule computations that are practical in the field."
"A way of surge suppression by a reactor is presented for the protection of turn-to-turn insulation of motors from steep front surges produced by vacuum switch. In the first part of this paper, the construction and the functions of the reactor are explained. Discussions are given on the possibilities of turn-to-turn faults by the switching surges under the effect of the reactor, taking voltage distribution in motor winding into account. The result is expressed as the probability of turn-to-turn fault per switching operation for a given circuit condition. Examples of numerical evaluation of probability are obtained for a circuit breaker with average chopping current of 4A and for a contactor with average chopping current of 1 A."
"In estimating the pole face loss due to the tooth ripple harmonics, the reaction effect of the rotor eddy current field with the airgap field should be taken into consideration. This reaction effect can be significant, particularly for the recent large synchronous generators."
"This paper presents a new approach for the evaluation of substation and switching station reliability performance in terms of outage frequencies and durations. All realistic component failure modes are included in the reliability predictions. The computer program described in the paper is fairly general. It performs failure modes and effects analysis and provides a concise and orderly description of the various combination of occurrences within the system that could result in an interruption. The application of the program is illustrated by considering two practical system examples. The concepts described are quite general and can be easily extended to the reliability evaluation of other power systems configurations."
"A physically realizable linear optimal controller in terms of easily measurable state variables for the stabilization of power system is developed in this paper. The controller is based on a fairly accurate fifth order synchronous machine and a first order voltage regulator. The transformation of the system equations into a cannonical form enables us to determine the weighting matrices Q and R of the quadratic cost function with simple procedure and to design an optimal controller which can stabilize a power system under widel. power range operating conditions. Transient response test on the nonlinear model proves the effectiveness of the linear control design."
"The contents and structure of IEEE 344-1973: \"Guide for Seismic Qualification of Class I Electric Equipment for Nuclear Power Generating Stations\" are reviewed. Important new requirements and concepts introduced during the recent revision of this Guide are discussed in the context of evolving qualification methods. It is suggested that this paper be studied in combination with IEEE 344-1973. This will contribute towards the standardization of acceptable methods of qualification."
"Using spectroscopic and high speed data acquisition (less than 5 μs) techniques, instantaneous measurements of the radial distribution of temperature within atmospheric argon alternating current arcs have been obtained. Incorporation of electronic synchronization methods has permitted such distributions to be determined at any predetermined relative time within the current cycle. The methods described can be applied to phenomena occurring within circuit breaker and switchgear devices. Phase lag between minimum centerline temperature and current zero was observed. The timewise variation of arc radius within the currents cycle was determined."
"This paper examines some of the possible orthogonal sampling techniques for determining instantaneous values of current and voltage to facilitate digital protection of transmission lines. The relative merits of each technique are examined by comparison of their frequency spectra. Tests to verify the results of the analytical analysis are described."
"This paper shows how the well proved self-contained oil-filled paper insulated cable, with the technological improvements continuously introduced in the recent years, and with the use of intensive forced cooling can provide a reliable means for the transmission of several GVA at the highest voltages now being considered (750-1200 kV)."
"In compressed gas insulated systems, the problems of the conducting particles, which are suspected to cause the irregular breakdown in SF6 gas, are serious matter for design engineers. In this paper the effects of conducting particles and insulating fibers are described under alternating, impulse and alternating-impulse superposed voltage conditions. Those investigated results had been applied for 500kV gas insulated substation already put into service in Japan."
"This paper describes the behavior of slip, force transmission mechanism and deformation of a laminated cylindrical rotor composed of segmental sheets under circumferential tensile force caused by centrifugal force. Experimental and theoretical investigations have been made and the results of experiments on slip between the sheets and deformation of cylinder have been consistent with the theory. Dimensions and arrangement of the segmental sheets, tightening pressure of the laminated cylinder and tightening-bolt holes in the sheets have effects on the behavior of slip and deformation of the laminated cylinder, and these effects are herein discussed."
"This paper presents general logic and a computational procedure for incorporating phase shifter control into the on-line energy control ceter computer operations of bulk power systems. Optimum phase shifter angle (tap setting) adjustments are determined on-line to alleviate present (real-time) system overloads and future contingency overloads without overloading the present (precontingency) system. As few phase shifters as possible are adjusted to eliminate the overloads. Phase shifter distribution factors are the basis of tnis phase shifter control procedure and two methods of calculating these factors are developed. In order to realize system economic benefits, phase shifter control adjustments are made prior to established generation megawatt shift procedures in an effort to eliminate system overloads."
"The results of carefully controlled laboratory experiments on contaminated flat plate insulators are presented. Flashover voltages and salt migration effects are shown for the following nine common salts: NaCl, NaNO3, Na2SO4, MgC12, Mg(NO3)2, MgSO4, CaCl2, Ca(NO3)2, and CaSO4. Our results show that the tendency for an insulator to flashover is dependent on the type of contaminant as well as on the equivalent salt density (esd). We also demonstrate the existence of a salt migration effect and conclude that it should be given equal status with dry band formation in attempts to understand flashover and the events leading to flashover."
"A fast algorithm for the dynamic estimation of complex bus voltages is described. All measurements of line power flows, bus voltage magnitudes and in many cases bus power injections, are used to perform a Kalman filtering dynamic update of the state. When the voltage magnitudes, bus power injections and past state estimates are unavailable, the algorithm is similar to the American Electric Power algorithm, proposed by, Dopazo et al. The principal feature of the new algorithm is that it requires no significant additional memory or computing time to provide the dynamic estimation facility. The static and dynamic estimators are tested with a portion of the Hydro-Quebec system consisting of fifty four 735 kV and 315 kV lines, and 7 off-nominal ratio transformers, and simulated data."
"This paper develops steady-state time harmonic expressions for synchronous motors. Using these expressions, the current harmonics and waveforms for motors supplied by variable-frequency solid-state power converters can be predicted. Such waveforms are particularly useful in the design of inverter commutation circuits. The models include the effects of saliency and dampers. Experimental results are included to confirm the analysis and show its limitations."
"Successful application of LVI methods to detect winding deformation after transformer short-circuit tests has made it feasible to use this technique as a maintenance tool to assess any deleterious effects of close-in faults on installed transformers. This report reviews Input and Voltage Differential methods, technique improvements and their application to field use. Short-circuit test comparisons are made with the Amplifier Differential method."
"A problem formulation and a nonlinear optimization method for water management in hydroelectric systems are presented. An adaptation of the method of conjugate gradients, taking full advantage of the problem's structure, is described."
"The increasing sizes of steam-turbine generators, and the increasing reactances of the transmission systems that interconnect them, are rapidly aggravating the problems of both transient and dynamic stability, but the design requirements for these two areas can conflict. The valuable contribution that contintiously-acting excitation control can make towards the alleviation of these problems is widely acknowledged, whilst this paper demonstrates that the exploitation of the potentialities of electro-hydraulic governing systems may be expected to reduce the stringency of the requirements made on excitation systems."
"A four-pole, 0.9-meter-long linear induction motor was tested in a rotating-disc facility at speeds up to 300 MPH (483 Km/Hr). The results were compared with predictions from a mesh/ matrix analysis method. The magnetic field and secondary (disc) current were method. The magnetic fiel and secondary( dsc) current were predicted to rise from low values at the entrance to peaks near the exit and to decay over a span of one to several pole pitches beyond the exit. Magnetic field measurements verified internal details predicted. Measured thrusts agreed with the mesh/matrix analysis within 10 percent. The results are considered to furnish verification of the mesh/matrix analysis method."
"One of the main causes of poor convergence of the load flow solution incorporating standard area interchange control is the artificial adjustment of real power generation at certain area \"regulating buses\" between iterations of power flow. A more realistic method of determining real power generation at these buses is proposed using linear network theory. This allows load flow calculations including area control with practically the same convergence rate as in studies tnwhich aea contol is excluded."
"As power systems have evolved in size and complexity so has the need for sophisticated and comprehensive real time control and dispatch techniques. Solutions presented in this paper are intended for on-line applications and are further designed to accommodate \"network\" as well as \"nonnetwork\" (e.g., environmental) and interacting operating restrictions. The paper reviews the criteria for the constrained optimization of real power; discusses practical approaches towards implementation; presents numerical results of tests on a large network model including the effects of convergence, external equivalents, and reference bus locations; proposes extensions to include reactive power dispatch and contingency constraints"
"The dynamic behavior of complex asynchronous motor loads has been investigated by means of a digital computer program based on general equations for induction machines. The paper is devoted to load-voltage relationships. Load-frequency characteristics are not discussed in detail."
"A numerical method for the computation of electrostatic fields is described. The basis of the method is the use of fictitious line charges as particular solutions of Laplace's and Poisson's equations. Details are given of a digital computer program developed for field calculations by means of this method, and its application is illustrated by practical examples involving two-and three-dimensional geometries."
"The termination of high voltage pipe-type cables within mini-substation equipment enclosures pressurized with SF6 gas permits considerable reduction in pothead dimensions."
"The dependence of the recovery speed on the pressure and on dI/dt was obtained, for both air and SF6, in a model interrupter of axial flow type employing a Laval nozzle. The measurements were carried out for pressures extending from 100-600 psi (6.8-41 atm) and for dI/dt values ranging from 5-30 A/μs. For both gases the recovery speed was found to increase with pressure, varying as the first power for air and as the 1.4 power for SF6. A stronger than expected dependence on dI/dt was also found for both air and SF6, the recovery speed varying inversely as the square in each case."
"A modern large ac generator draws excitation power from an ac exciter through a rectifier bridge. If the generator loses synchronism and slips with respect to the system the field current cannot reverse d the rectifier cells are subjected to inverse voltages. This situation has been modelled in the laboratory with a micro-machine and step-by-step calculations have been made which correlate with the laboratory tests. Calculated values using the parameters of a large machine are compared with measured values of inverse voltage."
"An improved method for calculating positive and negative corona pulses is presented. Not only do the calculated pulse shapes fit those observed, but also the calculated pulse amplitudes and repetition rates are much closer to the measurements than those calculated previously."
"This paper describes the properties and performance characteristics of a new type of composite aluminum-steel conductor. The aluminum wires are fully annealed in the factory, and normally all or most of the mechanical load is carried by the steel. The new conductor can operate continuously at high temperatures without detriment; it sags less at high temperatures than conventional conductors; it has a high self damping capability; it has a high degree of immunity to vibration fatigue; and its final sags are not affected by long time creep of aluminum."
"This paper describes the breakdown characteristics of SF6 at pressures up to 15 kg/cm2 absolute at 20°C against power frequency, switching impulse and lightning impulse voltages in sphere and coaxial cylinder gaps."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement, IEEE"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "The diameter of craters formed by a vacuum discharge on a copper cathode was determined for single and multiple discharges in the current range of 4-230 A. For a fixed current the crater diameter has values according a lognormal distribution solely determined by the current. Current chopping is characterized by the, forming of craters having one specific diameter (3,6 μm). After splitting of a discharge the current is on the average equally divided over the partial discharges. The surface geometry influences the movement of the metal vapour discharge over the cathode, it does not affect the distribution of cratersizes. The most probable current density in the cathode plane is a function of the current and is in the order of 108 A/cm2."
"This paper derives a method of calculating losses in steel enclosures that contain three equilaterally spaced balanced three phase conductors. Results are presented in a series of graphs which can be used for design purposes. Experimental data on a 30 inch (76cm) steel sheath confirmed the theoretical calculations."
"Dramatic growth of today's utility systems is causing fault currents to exceed circuit breaker capabilities at existing major stations. Moreover, mathematical projections indicate that this trend will continue at an accelerated rate. Development of a device to limit the instantaneous magnitude of the fault currents to predetermined levels is actively being pursued. This paper discusses the need and application of such a current limiting device."
"To improve efficiency and alleviate certain limitations in large generators, two separate stator windings have been suggested. The behavior of an alternator with two 3-phase stator windings displaced by an angle e;, is analyzed by means of an orthogonal transformation of the a, b, c; A, B, C; and fd variables into a new set: dl, ql, 01; d2, q2, 02; and fd. For balanced operating conditions the differential equations with the new variables have time-indenendent coefficients. Thus a phasor diagram can be drawn using self and mutual reactances Xd, Xqv X12d and X12q, determined from flux linkages. The latter are based on flux plots obtained bysolving the quasi-Poissoniandifferentialequation. The characteristic parameters for a specific operating condition are calculated for a 1200 MVA, 24 kV, 60 Hz, two-pole turbogenerator, and test data are presented covering single circuit operation on a 2-circuit generator with 600 belts connected as an alternate pole and alternate belt type double winding machine."
"The spectral properties of acoustic noise generated by corona at imperfections and water droplets on high voltage transmission lines are studied by means of single site corona sources in a coaxial geometry. The steady state noise as generated by these metallic imperfections or spitters and by single, flow rate dependent, sites of water emission is recorded and analyzed by means of a high fidelity microphone and a recording wave analyzer. To insure isolation from ambient noise, the entire electrode structure used to generate the corona is contained in an anechoic chamber."
"Parameters of the low voltage arm for damped capacitive dividers operating in the multi-megavolt region are analyzed. The influence of the residual inductance of the capacitive and resistive elements of this arm on the overall divider performance is examined experimentally through application of a new measuring technique. The desirable low inductance of these elements is in contradiction to the required dielectric strength and thermal capacity. A new optimized design of the low voltage arm is presented which can be manufactured in a normal high voltage laboratory workshop."
"The rapidly increasing effort to solve the problems of the controlled release of nuclear fusion energy has been stimulated by recent maturation of the science of plasma physics, especially in one area -- the confinement of plasma in closed magnetic fields. At the same time, significant experimental progress has been achieved with magnetic mirror machines, and a large toroidal theta pinch is under construction at Los Alamos. Enthusiasm is running high in groups working on laser-ignited fusion. Perhaps all of these approaches will lead to viable power systems. It seems to be generally accepted, however, that toroidal magnetic machines have the greatest probabilit-y of being first if not the only approach to succeed, and this paper restricts its attention to that category. Current theories correspond to experimental results in the laboratory, and predictions of these theories imply the possibility of successful thermonuclear reactors. At the same time increasingly more realistic studies of hypothetical fusion power stations carried out by laboratory, university, utility, and manufacturing personnel make them appear to be potentially of great economic interest. Serious problems still remain, but increasing government support leads many to expect a scientific feasibility experiment and a demonstration of thermonuclear burning of deuterium-tritium fuel before 1980."
"This paper describes an electromaanetic circuit model of three ohase transformers capable of includina ferromacanetic non-linear effects includinga hvsteresis, suitable for anv number of windinas with a variety of interphase connections and applicable to any magnetic circuit confiauration. In particular, three of the common types of magnetic circuits are considered i. e. (1) bank of sinqle phase cores (2) three limbb core and (3) five limmb core. The model is applied to tne solution of the inrush currents in a variety of situations and the results are shown to compare favourably with experimental results."
"Experiments showing anomalously low breakdown voltages in uniform field gaps in SF6 are discussed. A generalized quantitative criterion suitable for computer calculations of breakdown voltages in known fields in SF6 and other strongly electronegative gases is described, and it is shown that the anomaly in the uniform field gap breakdown voltages can be satisfactorily accounted for. Similar anomalies can occur in other field geometries and in other gases; it is shown how to avoid such breakdowns."
"After a brief historical review, integral equations are developed for the electromagnetic field vectors in space for a lossless system. The application of simple boundary conditions is demonstrated. This is an introduction to the generalized integral wave solution in Part II. 1 It is shown that the lossless ground plane can be replaced by image conductors. The effect of conductor losses on the electromagnetic field of the plane waves and the aspect of modal attennation are briefly discussed."
"A step by step solution of fields in the air and resistive soil for a single-conductor line is presented. Expression for the total line series impedance is derived. Fourier transform technique is applied to provide solution in a generalized integral form. Numerical method is suggested and a suitable computer programming is appended. The single-conductor line solution is extended to multiconductor system above earth with arbitrary dielectric constant and permeability. Various methods developed by other authors are reviewed."
"The theoretical background for a new method of extending the dynamic stability limit is presented in this paper. Analysis of the transfer function of a synchronous machine, connected to an infinite bus through a reactance, reveals important characteristics of the machine when it is operating at large torque angles."
"Back to back switching of grounded Wye shunt capacitors cause high frequency, high magnitude current flow in overhead bus and ground mat conductors. Measurements of induced voltages on control cables and receptacles, transverse voltages on fuse blown PT secondaries and personnel intercept voltages are reported. BPA methods of confining transients to capacitor areas and shielding techniques are reviewed."
"A family of finite elements with curved sides is described. Both flux density an: permeability may vary in a complex manner within each element. These elements are well suited t. the Newton-Raphson iteration process, yielding asymptotically quadratic convergence. They are compatible with the well known simple triangular element. Computational trials show the new elements to be capable of improved accuracy for a given computing time, and to have much greater geometric flexibility than triangles."
"In the subtransient analysis of salient pole alternators the reactances X11d and X11q are generally assumed to be constants. In saturated alternators these reactances are in reality functions of the pre-transient load and saturationix This gaper is an extension of former papers by Fuchs, et it dealing with steady state, and transient reactances. The methods used are the same as in [1] and [2] with the addition of damper windings effects. Notations not explained here are those of Concordia4 and of Fuchs3. The analysis is applied to a G. E. alternator with the following name-plate data: 82.5 MVA, 16.5 kV, wye-connected, 40 poles and 60 Hz, described in [1]."
"This paper contains the results of load cycle tests conducted on 154 kV cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulated cable. The purpose of such tests was to obtain the necessary technical data te determine the practicality of utilizing XLPE insulated cable as power transmission lines. To accomplish this task, two types of cables with different insulation thicknesses were manufactured and tested, together with the accessories of out door type terminals and molded joints."
"A modification of the Gramme-Ring armature winding is proposed-for possible use in high voltage alternators. The geometry of a toroidal winding permits good management of both eectric and magnetic fields within a machine. Design formulae for a superconducting alternator with atoroidally wound armature are presented, and a comparison is made between an armature designed on this principle and an existing armature for the MIT-EEI superconducting alternator."
"This paper describes a test technique which has been developed for use in the field to detect internal partial discharges which may occur in high voltage potential transformers. The first stage consists of. detecting ultrasonic signals caused by the discharges. This is done while the equipment is still energized by the system. The second stage consists of removinj from service the transformers found to be producing high ultrasonic signal levels and then subjecting those transformers to tests to measure the partial discharge level."
"In shunt reactors of modern day construction the required inductance is realized with coil turns numbering in thousands. When a turn to turn fault develops the conventional relaying schemes and protections are not adequate to sense a fault in its incipient stage until it has progressed through a-major section of the winding. In this paper the authors have described a fault sensing technique for detecting a turn to turn fault instantaneously within a reactor winding. An analytical description of the sensor coil is presented and the performance of the protective system as proven on an EHV shunt reactor is described."
  "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
    "Election to Fellow Grade in the IEEE is a distinction reserved for those who have made outstanding, highly significant achievements in the electrical engineering profession. As the IEEE and the scope of Engineering that it represents have grown, the number of BTR members attaining this recognition has not kept pace. It is, therefore, appropriate that the procedure for nomination of candidates for election to Fellow Grade be reviewed."
  "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "The operation of multiplier and video amplifier circuits used in present TV IF detector ICs is explained. A new detector is described which uses a separate sound detector to allow conventional trapping before the video detector. The sound carrier output is buffered and the video detector features differential inputs and special circuitry to handle input overloads. An NPN video amplifier uses differential to single-ended conversion to improve linearity and dc stability. The 14 lead device also includes an auxiliary video output, a carrier source for AFT, and a sync separator device."
"Because of the space requirements, poor tracking capabilities, and connection difficulties of four-ganged potentiometers for use in quadraphonic volume controls, many manufacturers of four channel equipment have been reluctant to use a single master volume control. Instead they have tended to use pairs of dual controls, typically connected as front and back gain controls combined with a pair of left/right balance controls. This results in even poorer tracking and in virtually unrepeatable balance setting for any room arrangement other than an ideally symmetric one where the listener is located on the axis requiring equal level settings on both gain controls. This paper discusses a four channel monolithic volume control whose gain is set by a single dc control voltage, with the ease of connection and space savings this implies. In addition to good channel to channel tracking, it has a fully flexible set of dc controlled balance functions and the capability of gain variation with logic enhanced 4-2-4 matrix recording systems. 1"
"Two classes of self stabilising horizontal deflection circuit are analysed. It is shown that both types, when optimised, involve a relatively small increase in deflection transistor VA for the stabilisation function. Typically the circuits are capable of stabilising against a 2 to 1 change in supply voltage with high efficiency."
"In the beginning the world of color television was dark, and the customer was fearful, but the salesman flipped the switch and said, \"Let there be light.\" And there was light -well almost light -and it was colored and the customer saw it was good...so he bought it. When he got it home, however, the customer realized his color set was almost dark compared to his monochrome set, so he didn't buy as many color sets as the salesman had. The salesman pondered the question and said to the engineer, \"Why can't there be more light so I can sell more color television sets?\" And the engineer looked puzzled and said, \"I don't know how to do it, but since the color television system -including cathode ray tube, broadcast standards, circuitry and what have you are all impossible anyway -I might as well try to give you more light.\" So he did."
"Two directions may be seen in the development of the future color television broadcast: 1) improving information quality, and 2) increasing variety of information to satisfy individual viewers' needs. Improved quality can be attained by high resolution television systems. On the other hand, improved variety can be attained by a still-picture television system."
"Charge-coupled device technology is creating today many new applications in the electronic industry that will impact a great deal the design of future systems in cameras, memories and signal processing. In the particular field of imaging, its impact on television cameras is being felt across the industry at the present, due to its inherent potential long-range, low-cost application. Low power, solid-state construction and high reliability add together to provide an imaging device that will be capable of replacing conventional vidicon and plumbicon tubes in TV cameras."
"This paper presents the analysis and design of the SCR horizontal deflection circuit employing two high frequency SCR's and two fast-turn-off diodes developed by RCA. (1)"
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
  "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
     "Since the introduction of solid encapsulated epoxy signal transistors by General Electric in 1962, substantial improvements have been made in plastic materials and packaging techniques resulting in a homogeneous solid package for semiconductor components. These advances, reflected in an excellent performance record in consumer and industrial equipments, have led to the extended use of these devices in industrial and some military applications where high reliability is demanded."
"The devices to be described perform in two 14 pin packages the necessary chrominance and luminance functions for the PAL system prior to chrominance demodulation. One device provides the necessary chrominance processing functions, while the other device combines luminance functions with manual chrominance control. Specifically, the chrominance IC contains the functions of sub-carrier regeneration, automatic chrominance control, H/ 2 generation and identification, color killer, and burst gating. The luminance IC provides DC operation of the contrast, saturation, and brightness controls, and the functions of beam current limiting and black level clamp."
"The increasing use of solid-state devices in consumer products has led to more reliable operation and permitted manufacturers to increase the length of their warranty service policies. Field failure data, however, has shown that, while reliability has been increased, further improvements will require higher reliability components and better control of their assembly into electronic systems."
 "This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "This page or pages intentionally left blank."
  "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
  "In this computer era, most engineers have benefitted tremendously from use of computers. This paper explains the application of computer-aided design to the remote control transmitter for the Magnavox deluxe color T. V. remote control system."
"Since the beginning of color television, a main concern has been over the complexity of customer controls. It is difficult for the average layman and even for most engineers to properly set the contrast, brightness and chroma controls for optimum picture quality. Attempts have been made to solve this problem but costs were high and the solution left much to be desired. With the advent of integrated circuits, the solution is in hand. This paper describes a monolithic integrated circuit wherein a single adjustment controls the contrast, chroma amplitude, and brightness level of the TV receiver. This control adjusts both luminance and chrominance amplitude simultaneously. DC restoration of the video signal to black level eliminates need to readjust the brightness control. The unique DC restoration function is performed in the I.C."
"The recently introduced high voltage power transistor has found increasing usage in such applications as TV horizontal sweep circuits, switching regulators and other switching applications. A serious problem confronting the circuit designer is how to design circuitry so that transient switching losses are minimized. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss some of the aspects of device behavior and circuit design which can lead to optimum performance with respect to fast current fall at turn off."
"The TRINITRON system was first produced in 1968, employing a 12V\" picture tube(1). Since that time, the picture tube size range has been extended both toward larger (21 V\") and smaller (5 V\") sizes. TRINITRON color picture tubes have so far been designed in eight different sizes; if the variety of electron guns and deflection angles is included, a total of twelve different kinds of TRINITRON tubes have been commercially marketed. The initial tubes were designed with a 90°deflection angle; since then 114°and 122°deflection tubes have also been developed. A number of innovative techniques have been employed in the newly designed tubes in order to maintain good picture quality. In particular, attention has been paid to the manufacturing aspects."
"Many detectors of the instantaneous frequency, f1, of an FM signal exist. All of these systems (slope detector, limiter-discriminator, phase-locked loop, etc.) either process the signal after all amplitude variation has been removed or ignore any variations in amplitude. In addition, most detectors have no selectivity due to baseband signal processing. The only detector that provides some selectivity through signal processing at baseband is the phase-locked loop, PLL. However, the amount of selectivity obtainable is severely limited by stability criteria of the feedback loop."
"TV sound ICs incorporating dc volume controls have been available for several years but because of certain performance limitations, some TV manufacturers have chosen to bypass this portion of the circuit in spite of its cost savings."
"The Philips VLP, Video Long Play, is a system for storage and playback of a 30 minute color television program on a plastic disc similar to a gramophone record (figure 1)."
"This paper reports on a team effort to develop an optical player based on a thin flexible disc and the aerodynamic disc stabilizer of Thomson-CSF. The signal is encoded by a method which minimizes the effect of microscopic non-linearities within the disc surface: luminance and chroma together modulate an FM carrier of relatively high frequency. Radial tracking is achieved by a method which keeps the focused laser beam centered on the recorded track, requires no auxiliary beams and permits unusually high track density. Timing errors, caused by eccentricity and distortion of the disc, are suppressed by an electromechanical servo which is combined with the tracking servo. Improved timing error correction opens up an interesting possibility of simplifying the decoder."
"The integrated circuits described in this paper were designed for electronic channel selection of varactor tuned television receivers. Two circuit types, hereafter called \"analog voltage switch\" and \"logic control circuit\", perform the essential functions necessary for channel selection and indication. Circuit partitioning and design were based on voltage breakdown, supply current requirements, circuit complexity, and a desire to package both circuits in 16 pin dual-in-line plastic packages. The logic control circuit consists of an oscillator which drives an up-down counter, logic circuitry which decodes the up-down counter and provides drive signals for the analog switches in an 8 ×2 array, automatic channel setting circuit, and an AFC defeat sound muting output. This circuit accomplishes channel selection by means of remote control or push-type switches. The analog voltage switch transfers the tuning voltage from the tuning potentiometers to the tuner and drives a high voltage indicating device such as a Nixie tube or neon bulb. Each analog voltage switch contains four switches to a common point and are cascadeable so the number of channels can be expanded in multiples of four to any desired number. However, the logic control circuit was designed to control sixteen channels and thus is used in conjunction with four analog voltage switches."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
  "Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes a unique circuit called a dual timer. The circuit was designed to be versatile and universal in consumer electronics applications. The circuit can operate in monostable as well as astable mode. This circuit can be used not only in linear circuitry but in digital circuitry as well since it operates from 5 volts to 15 volts and its output is TTL compatible. Each timer is basically comprised of two comparators (one for trigger and one for threshold, refer to Figure 1) a flip flop and a totem-pole output stage."
"Recently, several new approaches to the design of television tuning systems have emerged. Federal regulations concerning equal parity for UHF and VHF tuning systems have caused increased interest in purely electronic tuning systems. In addition, such factors as reliability, economics, aesthetics and convenience, as well as the increased number of channels on UHF and cable, have spurred interest in the development of solid state, totally electronic television tuning capability. The ideal tuning system incorporates all of these features."
"This paper describes a unique frequency domain tuning scheme for varactor TV tuners. The purpose of a frequency domain tuning system is to control a TV varactor tuner complement so that the proper local oscillator frequency is obtained for the channel number selected."
"In this report the causes for luminance dependent distortions which are produced from the detection of television signals will be discussed and possibilities for improvement will be shown. Due to the availability of measurement equipment all test are performed in the CCIR-standard. The result can unconditionally be transferred to the NTSC-standard."
"The 20AX system was recently introduced in Europe as the first self converging picture tube/deflection coil, combination for 110°deflection and screen sizes up to 26\". The system is based on the automatic convergence principle discovered by Haantjes and Lubben of Philips Research Laboratory more than 20 years ago. It makes use of an in-line gun array in conjunction with a specially designed saddle type deflection coil. Residual small tolerance errors are compensated by a simple dynamic four-pole system. The tube is 2 cm shorter than conventional 110°tubes and has a standard 36.5 mm neck in order to obtain good color selection. A slotted mask is used in combination with a stripe-structure screen. Picture sharpness is ensured by an astigmatic electron gun."
"A description is given of the main electron-optical, electrical, and mechanical features of the deflection yoke that provides automatic convergence in the 20AX system. Sectionally wound saddle coils are used, and the shells in which they are mounted incorporate reference pieces to minimize assembly tolerances. An easy to operate assembly of multi-pole magnet rings provides for static convergence, color purity, and raster symmetry adjustment."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation into electronic circuitry and techniques to replace the electromechanical switches and potentiometers currently used in consumer audio equipment. Particular attention was devoted to the development of a touch sensor which is reliable and insensitive to electrical initerference. The logic circuitry was developed with standard CMOS integrated circuits to perform the interlock and memory functions provided by electromechaiiical controls."
"The present description concerns a circuit distinguished by original concepts in circuit design, manufacturing technology and packaging."
   "This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The importance of dielectrics for high-voltage applications in space arises from a growing demand for large amounts of power, presently at up to about 20 kV. The most difficult insulation problem exists when the dielectric is exposed to the relatively dense ionospheric plasma. The dielectric phenomena requiring investigation are surface and volume conduction currents, photoconduction currents, nondestructive breakdowns, destructive breakdowns, and pinhole currents. There are several unusual requirements for a suitable space-dielectric evaluation instrument. Only one surface of the test dielectric is to be in contact with a solid conducting electrode. The other surface of the dielectric is completely exposed to the vacuum and unaltered (no applied conducting surface coating). Means must be provided for depositing electrical charges on the exposed surface, with negligible impact energies, to produce the desired voltage across the test dielectric. The exposed dielectric surface potential must be measured continuously. A suitable instrument has been devised and used. In it the dielectric is charged by a positive ion or an electron beam of known energy and current density."
"For want of better electrical insulators in general and capacitor insulations in particular, especially in the realm of extra high voltage stress areas, work has been done by many pioneers toward this end, first in the materials provided by nature and then in the field of synthetics limited only by man's imagination. One of the newest and seemingly most practical glimpses of light, especially in the field of capacitor dielectrics, is the use of polypropylene films. A considerable amount of work has been done. The work involved is directed only to the particular interest of capacitor engineering and application. It was limited to the area of two most important requirements for capacitors used in the communication and control industries, namely, temperature coefficient and capacitance stability or retrace under temperature variation and cycling. Several types of construction and treatment are reviewed and results are presented for general evaluation. The main purpose of this paper is, of course, to reveal some pertinent experimental data and to limit the comment to a minimum. No claim is laid as to the ultimate superiority of polypropylene film capacitors, but the facts are presented and can be judged by their own merit. Some apparent highlights, such as the exceptionally good retrace, of course, have been pointed out, but in general the paper is intended to be an unbiased evaluation."
"This paper surveys methods for planning and analyzing accelerated life tests. Many of these methods are new and providemore informative results for less time and cost than do previous methods. These methods are of value to all who plan and analyze accelerated tests on any product or material."
"This paper describes a library of computer field programs available for design investigations during the development of high-voltage switchgear equipment. The emphasis is on recent developments to a general-purpose multidielectric field program suitable for solving practical field problems in two dimensions or in three dimensions with one axis of symmetry. These developments include an improved presentation of printout data, automatic drawings of computed equipotentials, and accurate calculation of gradient values for practical systems. A quadratic fit method and finite-difference techniques to compute gradient values are discussed together with associated accuracies. Finally, examples are given of the application of this numerical technique to high-voltage switchgear design."
  "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The IEEE Group on Electrical Insulation is responsible for leadership, coordination, and communication between chemists, engineers, mathematicians, and physicists who are concerned with dielectric phenomena and behavior, with development and characterization of all gaseous, liquid, and solid electrical insulating materials, and with utilization of these dielectric materials in electrical and electronic circuits and systems under all conditions of use. The IEEE Transactions on Electrical Insulation is published to provide a permanent record of the expanding corpus of scientific and technical knowledge required by all IEEE members and others interested in the interdisciplinary field of dielectrics and electrical insulation. This Transactions is edited to encourage deeper understanding and greater effectiveness in observing, classifying, interpreting, and reporting facts and theories germane to dielectric behavior and properties of electrical insulating materials. Thoughtfully prepared and carefully documented papers dealing with fundamental concepts of dielectric behavior, with original theoretical and experimental studies, and with reproducible means of evaluating performance of materials and equipment are most appropriate. Tutorial or synoptic papers are welcome when they provide a fresh approach and a penetrating analysis of an established subject in the field of dielectrics and electrical insulation."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Kerr electrooptic effect is used to study the static electric-field distortions produced by various solid dielectric materials when introduced between parallel plate electrodes in a chlorobiphenyl liquid insulating medium. The results show that for an Aroclor of commercial purity, the field distortions are independent of the electrical properties of the solid. A weak dependence on the liquid impurity levels is shown. The surface current densities are also independent of the spacer materials. It is suggested that the measured surface current density is due to electrohydrodynamic (EHD) circulation of the liquid near the spacer. The resulting field distortions are discussed in the light of EHD motion of the liquid at the solid-liquid interface."
"Refined Kerr electrooptical fringe-pattern methods are used to study time and space variations in the electric field between the electrodes of parallel-plate capacitors filled with liquid nitrobenzene. Photographs of fringe-pattern data recorded during application of high direct (both positive and negative) and sinusoidal voltages, ranging in frequency from 40 to 200 Hz, are compiled to enable computation of space-charge distortions of the field in bulk of the liquid during the stress of high-field (up to 85-kV/ cm) operation. The measurements reveal significant differences between the field and charge behavior under short pulse (microsecond) voltage conditions, during prolonged dc operation, after sudden changes in the dc voltage level and polarity, and, for the first time, at various intervals over the course of entire cycles of sinusoidal voltage. The results show that space-charge distortion in the interelectrode field is influenced by the level, frequency, and duration of applied voltage. Discussions of effects believed due to particulate charge carriers, to electrohydrodynamic motion of the liquid, and to the electrode materials are also included."
"The dielectric response of a pipe-type cable insulating oil film has been examined as a function of film thickness in the temperature range from 25 to 85°C at frequencies down to 10-2 Hz. Oil films, having thicknesses of 1-12 mil, were investigated. With films thicker than 6 mil, the dielectric behavior approached that of the oil in bulk form and the long-range charge-carrier migration process was characterized by activation energies lying between 0.72 and 0.85 eV. Reductions in oil-film thickness gave rise to spacecharge effects, which tended to decrease the apparent activation energy; values between 0.57 and 0.63 eV were found to be typical of a 2.5-mil film. The determined activation energies for dc conduction in the respective oil films showed in general a striking agreement with ac values. The involvement of hydrogen ions in the conduction process was suggested."
"A test length of a liquid-nitrogen-cooled vacuum-insulated coaxial cable for use in underground power transmission has been studied with respect to its high-voltage insulation properties. The critical element in the cable is the spacer between the conductors, since electrical discharges in the system are easily initiated across this spacer. Previous experiments with voltage sources capable of supplying low currents indicated insignificant discharge damage to the spacer as long as inorganic materials were used. The new results given in this paper show that insulator damage may still be small for discharges with peak current amplitudes up to 40 kA. The discharge current was supplied by an energy storage capacitor bank for a large number of tests with the same spacer. In addition to current measurements, photographic records of the discharges are presented, and an assessment of the damage to the insulator and conductors is given."
"A 50-ns pulse generator is used to obtain time-correlated current-voltage relationships in the prebreakdown region for a long vacuum gap with cold planar electrodes. Analysis of data indicates several sequential stages occur. These stages include an initial quiet stage of voltage increase without interelectrode current, a microdischarge stage, a field emission stage, a space-charge controlled stage, and a final low-impedance stage where the current becomes sustaining. Electrical breakdown of the gap is considered in terms of a positive ion front moving from the anode."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement, IEEE"
"Advertisement, IEEE"
"The IEEE Group on Electrical Insulation is responsible for leadership, coordination, and communication between chemists, engineers, mathematicians, and physicists who are concerned with dielectric phenomena and behavior, with development and characterization of all gaseous, liquid, and solid electrical insulating materials, and with utilization of these dielectric materials in electrical and electronic circuits and systems under all conditions of use. The IEEE Transactions on Electrical Insulation is published to provide a permanent record of the expanding corpus of scientific and technical knowledge required by all IEEE members and others interested in the interdisciplinary field of dielectrics and electrical insulation. This Transactions is edited to encourage deeper understanding and greater effectiveness in observing, classifying, interpreting, and reporting facts and theories germane to dielectric behavior and properties of electrical insulating materials. Thoughtfully prepared and carefully documented papers dealing with fundamental concepts of dielectric behavior, with original theoretical and experimental studies, and with reproducible means of evaluating performance of materials and equipment are most appropriate. Tutorial or synoptic papers are welcome when they provide a fresh approach and a penetrating analysis of an established subject in the field of dielectrics and electrical insulation."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The dielectric response of an oil-impregnated-kraft paper system has been examined in the temperature range from 25-85°C at frequencies down to 10-2 Hz. Single and double sheet oil-paper specimens were studied. With single sheet paper specimens the long range charge carrier migration process was found to follow the Eyring behavior over the main test temperature region and was characterized by dc and ac activation energies ranging from 0.40 to 0.47 eV and from 0.37 to 0.48 eV, respectively. The involvement of mobile ions, possibly hydrogen, appeared to be a likely cause for the observed conduction process. Due to appreciable interfacial polarization effects, the dielectric behavior of the two paper sheet specimens exhibited strong deviations from the Eyring behavior. No definite physical significance could thus be attached to the derived values of activation energy over the restricted linear regions of the ln Rac versus 1/T plots."
"Experiments have been carried out to determine the partial discharge performance of laminated Kraft paper/oil dielectric (1.3 mm thick). As with conventional corona pulse detection equipment, the pulses were measured on a radio interference (RI) meter which proved well suited for this purpose. The type of insulation investigated has high long-term electric strength if correctly assembled, even when small voids are present in the dielectric. If discharges do occur, a certain recovery interval is required to regain almost full electrical strength, because of the time needed to absorb gases formed by the discharge. The data obtained on the test specimens were confirmed by long-term tests carried out on oil-filled instrument transformers."
"The results of an experimental investigation of the surface flashover of high density alumina spacers in vacuum are presented. The insulators were subjected to a combination of a dc or 60-Hz prestress and a 1-50-us impulse stress. It is shown that the overall flashover voltage is strongly dependent upon the magnitude and polarity of the prestress when the spacers make a butt contact with the electrodes. Recessing the solid-electrode junction below the plane of the electrode at the impulse cathode makes the overall flashover voltage independent of the prestress. The effect of the prestress is shown to disappear within 50 us of the removal of the stress. The results are explained in terms of a charge injection model."
"The use of an HV fog chamber in conjunction with a variety of environmental exposures to study degradation in the surface properties of polymer systems and how this affects wet electrical insulation is dealt with. Emphasis is placed on studying the conditions for leakage current inception and further current development leading to a flashover condition. The relationship between surface current, time, and voltage are plotted graphically and discussed."
"In order to clarify the propagation mechanisms of water trees, an ac voltage was applied to the water electrodes and the propagation of water trees was studied. The length of the water trees generated from water electrodes is proportional to the time of voltage application. The propagation rate increases as the frequency of the. applied voltage is increased. The rate also increases when the conductivity of the water is increased. Light emission was observed from water trees. Oxygen production was observed by iodostarch color reaction in the water electrodes. It is concluded that water trees are generated by partial discharge which decomposes the water to generate high pressure which deteriorates polyethylene."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement, IEEE"
"The IEEE Group on Electrical Insulation is responsible for leadership, coordination, and communication between chemists, engineers, mathematicians, and physicists who are concerned with dielectric phenomena and behavior, with development and characterization of all gaseous, liquid, and solid electrical insulating materials, and with utilization of these dielectric materials in electrical and electronic circuits and systems under all conditions of use. The IEEE Transactions on Electrical Insulation is published to provide a permanent record of the expanding corpus of scientific and technical knowledge required by all IEEE members and others interested in the interdisciplinary field of dielectrics and electrical insulation. This Transactions is edited to encourage deeper understanding and greater effectiveness in observing, classifying, interpreting, and reporting facts and theories germane to dielectric behavior and properties of electrical insulating materials. Thoughtfully prepared and carefully documented papers dealing with fundamental concepts of dielectric behavior, with original theoretical and experimental studies, and with reproducible means of evaluating performance of materials and equipment are most appropriate. Tutorial or synoptic papers are welcome when they provide a fresh approach and a penetrating analysis of an established subject in the field of dielectrics and electrical insulation."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This summarizes the important physical and electrical characteristics of these diverse and highly useful insulating materials. Factors of chemical structure which influence the resulting resin properties are discussed. The great variety of properties which can be achieved through variations in this one class of resins is emphasized. A range of applications of these resins is mentioned and illustrated."
"Voids produced in the impregnation process exist in mica insulation system of rotating machine coil. Distribution of those voids' size, gap spacing, and discharge area is estimated based on the experimental data on the repetition rate and the apparent charge of partial discharges of sample coils. The method is grounded on several assumptions such as Paschen's law for discharge inception voltage of the voids, zero residual voltage after the discharge. These assumptions are verified for model voids. A computer program was developed to obtain the void size distribution rapidly and accurately. The size of voids detected in-practical model coils are in the range of gap spacing and discharge area of 0.01 mm~0.2 mm and 5 mm2~300 mm2, respectively. The results are in conjunction with the tip-ups of tangent delta and also compared with the results of a method developed by Terase [1]."
"Based on measurements, the strength of synthetic oil impregnated capacitor paper (Askarel) to dc and ac voltage 1.2/50-μs voltage surges and switching surges of various wavefront duration are discussed. The results of measurements are compared with the performance figures of mineral oil impregnated capacitor paper. The diminishing effect of the number of lightning and switching surges and their amplitude upon electric strength and of initial voltage partial discharge is investigated."
"Two electrostatic detectors are designed to search for the presence of microparticles of dimensions greater than 10 μm, in an ultrahigh-vacuum test gap (≈7 mm), when a high dc voltage (> 100 kV) is applied across the gap. The experiments with both the detectors revealed that such microparticles are not generated in detectable numbers, within the vacuum gap, prior to breakdown."
"An experimental investigation of the effect of a cuprous oxide coating upon the surface flashover of high-density alumina in vacuum is reported. It is shown that such coatings improve the impulse strength of the system and eliminate the conditioning effect observed in the case of uncoated specimens at dc and 60-Hz voltages. An explanation of the observed behavior is given in terms of a surface charging model. It is postulated that the improvement in the insulation by the coatings is due to a reduction in the secondary electron emission yield."
"Underwater repeatered telephone cable systems are series powered by high-voltage dc. Each repeater and equalizer contains a power separation filter (PSF) for extracting the dc current from the center conductor of the coaxial cable while allowing signal transmission. Corona discharges occurring across the high-voltage components are coupled through reactive components to the repeater's terminals. Each of the experimentally observed pulse shapes emanating from a discharge in the power filter must be evaluated to determine the effect on both system data transmission and reliability objectives. The response to surface corona discharges across the dielectric of the high-voltage capacitors has been successfully duplicated without high voltage by applying current pulses to the appropriate electrodes. This technique in conjunction with artificial contamination of dielectric surfaces and cataloging of the resultant discharge waveforms has led to identification of the major corona sources in the telephone repeater and consequently, to a factory testing program for components and assembled networks that assures satisfactory corona \"free\" units. The experimental results have also been successfully simulated numerically with a time domain circuit analysis comiputer program which has proved useful in establishing limits for the testing program."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Advertisement, IEEE"
"Advertisement, IEEE"
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "This paper has two purposes: (1) to assess the relative importance of magnetic and electric coupling parameters of braided shields in the determination of terminal response of braided-shield cables to external electromagnetic fields and (2) to compare a postulated coupling model with those on which various experimental determinations of shielding effectiveness have been based. In the first case, formulas for certain special conditions of wave incidence and sheath-conductor terminations are obtained, but their implications are not explored in detail. In the second case, certain discrepancies among various published methods of measurement and between the measurements and the postulated model are noted. The paper also shows formally how the external-field coupling parameters to each conductor of a multiconductor cable may be determined. A review of earlier work indicated that measurements made in the past have been largely incomplete. In some cases, only the effect of the inductance parameter was measured; in others, the composite effect of both inductive and capacitive coupling was measured, but attributed to inductance only. In either category, this analysis shows that the use of such a limited physical model will generally lead to inaccurate predictions of cable terminal response."
"This paper discusses an improved method of measuring the effectiveness of cable shielding and describes the results of tests on single- and multi-branched cables. Effects of significant shielding parameters of cables are also reported. These are the the effect of number of shield braid layers, braid material, braid angle, optical coverage, cable length, and wire size. The test method permits measurement of long specimens using high currents with a uniform current distribution along the cable shield. Measurements were made in the frequency range 0.5 to 100 MHz. The method is offered as a standard technique for measuring the shielding effectiveness* of shielded cables."
"This paper describes the equipment and technique used to measure shielding effectiveness* of threaded electrical connectors during vibration. The vibration fixture is a modified coaxial trough of which the connector is a part. The connector is mechanically loaded with a short section of cable. A known current is applied on the shield of this short cable section and across the receptacle/plug interfaces. RF leakage into the interior of the cable is determined by forming the interior wiring of the cable into a closed loop and measuring the current in this loop. The logarithmic ratio of the current in the shield to the current in the interior loop is the shielding effectiveness of the cable-connector combination. The cable shield is composed of brass convolute with a braid covering and provides, by itself, 100 dB isolation. This isolation was demonstrated by testing the shielding effectiveness (S.E.) of a base-line specimen which substituted a brass fitting for the connector. It is demonstrated that this method of testing connectors can be used to determine S.E. under vibration. The method is proposed as a standard method of qualification testing of connectors."
"An analytical procedure is developed capable of predicting the performance of FET's in mixer and modulator applications. The work is sufficiently general to permit analysis of all modes of operation from hard-switching to \"Class A\" and to facilitate calculation of nonlinear distortion product levels. Theoretical predictions of conversion gain and intermodulation distortion performance agree well with the measured behaviour of a typical HF circuit."
"Many computer programs have been developed to help the engineer predict intermodulation components and spurious responses. The purpose of this paper is to show that it is not necessary to use a computer to solve such problems and that the use of graphical techniques can lead to a more intelligent choice of frequencies since a global picture of the problem is presented to the engineer. Equations for two and three signal intermodulation interference cases are derived and put in a form such that graphs can be easily drawn from them. These graphs can be made to fit a specific problem or can be constructed with normalized scales and therefore have a general use. A similar approach can be used for the spurious response problem although, the construction of a simple independent table rather than a graph is much easier to create and utilize."
"Several zero-memory nonlinear devices whose transfer characteristics are related in some specified manner are considered. This paper discusses the relationships between the output autocorrelation functions of the related devices when they are excited by signal plus Gaussian noise and interference. The results are applied to show how unknown correlation functions can easily be obtained for the exponential device and for power law devices."
"The balun is in widespread commercial use and is an important systems component. This suggests that it may be of use to consider it as a unique element and formalize its qualities. This is attempted in this paper. The balun is shown to be one combination of a more basic element. This new element is termed \"Ison\" as an acronym for \"isolation network.\" Various Ison combinations are shown and discussed."
"A recurrence formula is developed that can be used to generate an intermodulation-free frequency list. A frequency list is intermodulation-free if it satisfies one or more linear inequalities. Although the list developed here satisfies a simple linear inequality, it is hoped that this presentation will provide insight into developing recurrence formulas that can be used to generate lists that satisfy more complicated linear inequalities."
  "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a series of tests conducted 1) to statistically characterize the amplitude distribution of automotive ignition noise, and 2) determine whether such test results can be reproduced. Some tests showed the amplitude distribution to be Weibull and others indicated a log normal distribution. However, under controlled conditions the results obtained from an individual vehicle were quite repeatable."
"Amplitude-probability-distribution (APD) data are presented for ignition emanations from V-8 engines of used motor vehicles. Outputs from both single and multiple engines running at 1500 rpm were measured with an omnidirectional antenna over the frequency range from approximately 20 MHz to 1 GHz. In each case, the antenna was oriented similarly with respect to the vehicle(s)-vertical, height 3 m, distance 10 m. Results are presented on Weibull-distribution sheets and compare favorably with those of Hsu et al. [1] using a different technique. On each sheet, APD distributions are given for various received bandwidths between 1 and 300 kHz. For the larger bandwidths, curves are straight lines with large negative slopes. At narrower bandwidths and for multiple vehicles, slopes are less steep. Major conclusions from the APD results include the following. 1) Although overlapping of successive pulses at a detector becomes more prominent at narrower bandwidths, measurements are still valid and representative for a given bandwidth. 2) Measurements indicate good repeatability. 3) Curve shapes are essentially independent of tuned frequency, but do depend upon bandwidth and number of vehicles. 4) Amplitudes are functions of tuned frequency and number of vehicles."
"Determination of optimal receiver or detector and suboptimal estimator in the presence of additive atmospheric noise depends on the application of a mathematically tractable model of noise. In the tropics the atmospheric radio noise occurring mostly in the burst form above a relatively small continuous background does not deliver energy at a constant rate. This type of noise is non-Gaussian and has a very large dynamic range. The noise bursts consist of a number of short impulses. They are modelled here as the product of a narrow-band Gaussian noise and the reciprocal of a non-Gaussian random process. This paper includes the derivation of statistical information for the above noise viz, the probability distribution of amplitudes, and of separation between pulses, required for determining the error probabilities using various digital methods. This information can be used in filter optimization in digital systems, where the error probability is to be minimized."
"An analysis of the low-frequency magnetic field in the vicinity of three-wire cable carrying three-phase current is presented. Parallel wire systems and twisted wire systems are considered. Radial and tangential components for the parallel wire system are obtained as a function of the position of the observation point in a polar coordinate system. The magnitude of both components approach equality at large distances and at these distances become invariant with angle around the cable. At positions close to the cable the tangential component is maximum opposite to each wire but the radial component has a mimum at different angular positions at different distances. The twisted cable analysis extends earlier work with two-wire single-phase systems. The results show that the behavior at large distance is very similar for the two- and three-wire systems, the only difference being that the latter has a constant multiplier of 0.75. Detailed curves of fields for the parallel wire case are presented. A combined curve for tangential field for parallel wire cable at small distances and the asymptotic field for twisted wire cable at large distances is also presented."
"An analysis of the Moebius loop which provides the relationship between magnetic field and output voltage is presented. This analysis accounts for all of the loop electrical phenomena involved over the broad range of frequencies encountered in measurement of fast pulses; specifically, from dc to frequencies corresponding to a loop electrical diameter of from about 6.4 degrees to 12.8 degrees. In the usual application, the loop is small, so that this corresponds to high (typically much greater than 100 MHz) frequencies. It is found that the relationship given is valid up to the stated 6.4 degrees limit for any loop coax and connecting balanced line impedance combination, but that the validity of extensions above this limit depend on the relationship between these impedances. Loop response as a function of frequency is deduced, from which useful approximations are derived, one of which is that below a certain frequency, which is defined here, loop output voltage is proportional to the derivative of the field. Finally, a detailed numerical example is given."
"The characteristics of thin-wire, finite-gap λ/2 and λ/4 dipoles fed with a length of two-wire transmission line have been studied using matrix methods [1]-[4]. Transmission line length and gap size have been varied obtaining the complete solution (current distributions, impedance and far field beam patterns) in each case. Significant departures from the ideal dipole characteristics are found even for electrically small gap sizes and transmission line lengths. When the departures are small, they can be described adequately by a cross polarization ratio and by null fill-in. These effects are minimized by choosing transmission line length It equal to nλ, where n is an integer. Departures from ideal dipole performance are significantly increased as dipole length l decreases, gap length d increases, transmission line length lt, increases and current imbalance increases. Some of the effects noted have been verified experimentally."
"Previous formulations of the signal-to-noise power ratio (SNR) of an antenna array are shown to fail when a number of monochromatic discrete noise sources smaller than the number of elements in the array are considered in the formulation. It is shown how the performance of the array with respect to SNR may, nevertheless, be optimized using a gain maximization procedure The derivation of the theory is carried out in terms of network parameters defined at the input terminals of the array elements. Mutual coupling effects are taken into account. Numerical and experimental results are also presented to illustrate how this technique can be physically implemented."
"The impedance of a vertical antenna (monopole) normalized to 189 Ω, or its reciprocal, is equal to that of three different antennas in half space. This equality derived by the formulation of a common effective height, and therefrom a common Q, offers a technique for antenna evaluation in electromagnetic compatability (EMC)."
"A logical procedure is presented for determining the electromagnetic compatability (EMC) of a system, based upon an analytical approach developed earlier. The procedure is illustrated using as a system an airplane with a manageable number of electrical-electronic subsystems. The result is a single number which can be used in a weapon system effectiveness equation and is generally useful not only to EMC engineers, but also to other electronic engineers and managers. Byproducts of the procedure are enhanced highlighting of critical parameters for design purposes and a means for economic evaluation of EMC efforts."
"Three basic techniques are presented for determining the probability that signal level and signal-to-interference ratio criterion values are met when the desired and interfering signals are jointly normal at the input to a receiver. In addition, several special case solutions and approximations are given that simplify the problem. These approaches are also applicable to determining the cumulative multivariate normal distribution function. Applications of the techniques to special EMC problems, including interference situations that arise in cosite installations, are briefly indicated. In addition, a discussion is given of the interpretation of the probability of meeting acceptance criteria as the probability of message reception by a human operator."
"Techniques to improve upon the design of two-dimensional encoding masks for multiplex Hadamard spectrometric imagers are described. The technique to generate masks based on completely orthonormal codes is described. In some cases, self-supporting masks result which were not previously known. Transmission through the encoding masks (but not necessarily the signal-to-noise ratio) can also be increased."
"Analogous to Fourier frequency transforms of the integration and differentiation of a continuous-time function, Walsh sequency transforms of the summing and differencing of an arbitrary discrete-time function have been derived. These transforms can be represented numerically in the form of matrices of simple recursive structure. The matrices are not orthogonal, but they are the inverse of each other, and the value of their determinants is one."
"Logic expressions are developed for a Walsh function generator for highly-orthogonal sal and cal sequency pairs, using clocked T-type flip-flop outputs. It is shown that the flip-flop toggle logic functions are generated fully by the rate multiplier type 7497, leading to economical implementation. Thus a generator for up to 63 sequency pairs consists of only seven integrated circuits."
"This short paper shows how the sampled output of a dyadic-invariant linear system with a given sequency-domain transfer function, in response to a sampled input, can be determined by 1) a term-wise multiplication of the sampled transfer function and the discrete Walsh transform of the sampled input function, followed by an inverse Walsh transform, or 2) a discrete dyadic convolution of the sampled impulse response and the sampled input directly in the time domain. Functions in both time and sequency domains are represented by column matrices, and discrete Walsh transformation is effected simply by the multiplication with a Walsh matrix. An example is included to illustrate both procedures. The validity of the solutions is further verified by showing that the governing dyadic differential equation of the system is satisfied."
"A listing of computer programs with applications to EMC is provided. A short description of the program and the address and telephone number of an individual to contact for further information is also included."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Parameters describing the susceptibility of a receiving installation to interfering electromagnetic fields are discussed, and appropriate measuring methods are devised. As a result of an extensive analysis of the complex system of transmitters, interference sources and radio receivers in the range of 0.15-1000 MHz, susceptibility limits are proposed, and their values are compared with measurements on production-type receivers."
"A short survey is given of various methods proposed for the measurement of equipment immunity to extraneous electromagnetic fields. Their relative merits are discussed and progress in international standardization within the IEC is reported."
"The ignition system of any spark-ignited internal combustion engine-powered device is well recognized as a major source of radiated electromagnetic interference (EMI). Spark plus designs can be selected to aid in reducing ignition-related EMI. The effects of various spark plug designs such as resistor spark plugs, inductor spark plugs, and shielded spark plugs upon both EMI and ignition system performance are presented. In addition to studying the effect of spark plug design, the use of the SAE standard (J551b) and other EMI measurement techniques to determine effect of spark plug suppression designs are discussed. Generally, the addition of a resistor to the spark plug provides the most effective spark plug suppression. However, other designs may be effective as an addition to the resistor or as a substitute where resistors cannot be practically used."
"The time domain magnetic field integral equation is used to calculate the surface current density caused by an incident plane wave, induced on a fat cylinder. Results that illustrate shadowing on the cylinder are given for two different incident polarizations."
"Algorithmic properties of logical/dyadic and arithmetic autocorrelation functions (LAF, AAF) of wide-sense stationary processes are investigated. It is shown that the LAF to AAF transformation and vice versa, denoted by LAF ⇄ AAF, can be computed by fast algorithms. These algorithms require N/2(log2 N - 1) additions/subtractions, N divisions/shifts, and approximately N storage locations. It is shown that the LAF ⇄ AAF algorithm enables one to estimate the AAF (and hence the Fourier power density spectrum) appreciably faster than by conventional methods. Illustravie examples are included."
"The Z-transform of a discrete square-wave function simplifies the derivation of an expression for the Fourier transform of a continuous square-wave function defined over a finite interval. In particular, since the Z-transform of any Walsh function can be written in closed form by inspection of the G ray code representation of its index, the Fourier transform can be readily written down as a trigonometric product function."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A new technique developed at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) for establishing standard, uniform, electromagnetic (EM) fields in a shielded environment is described. The technique employs transverse electromagnetic (TEM) transmission cells that operate as 50 Ω impedance-matched systems. A uniform TEM field is established inside a cell at any frequency of interestbelow that for which higher order modes begin to propagate. Standard field strength levels from 10 μV/m to 500 V/m can be established with uncertainties of less than 1.0 dB to 2.0 dB inside the NBS cells for frequencies from dc to 500 MHz. The cells are especially useful for calibrating EM radiation hazard meters, for emission and susceptibility testing of small to medium sized equipment, and for special low level calibration of very sensitive field strength meters."
"Equations are derived for the currents in the load of a two-wire transmission line illuminated by the nonuniform fields of a small coplanar loop. Since the derived equations contain complicated integrals requiring machine computation, an approximate solution, which is applicable to most coupling geometries and which greatly reduces the computational effort, is also developed. In a numerical example, the currents excited by the loop are compared with the currents excited by a plane wave."
"The shielding properties of a thick cylindrical shell of finite conductivity is presented. The analysis uses straightforward separation of variables methods via cylindrical harmonic functions. The results show that significant attenuation of the incident fields are achieved for thick cylindrical shields thus demonstrating that the resonances noted in earlier work using thin shell models can be alleviated."
"A plane wave is symmetrically incident on a spherical shell with a circular aperture. The fields inside and outside the cavity are expanded in terms of spherical vector wave functions and the modal coefficients are found by application of the least squares method to the boundary conditions. Computed data are obtained and the results exhibited in the form of amplitude curves of the interior and aperture fields as functions of position for a variety of cavity and aperture sizes. Within the cavity it appears that the field variations are primarily determined by the cavity size and that the aperture size serves only to scale them."
"The method for performing an exact surface integration for the E-field integral equations is outlined, and a comparison with the often used thin-wire approximation is made. It is found that for pulse type basis functions, the thin-wire kernel is valid for cell sizes greater than about eight wire radii, with an overall error in the kernel less than one percent."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "The tracking performance of a dithering loop in the presence of white Gaussian noise is analyzed and compared to the performance of a delay-lock loop. Performance curves are presented."
"This paper describes two methods of generating an analog frequency-modulated waveform by the use of a small number of digital samples of the \"chirp\" waveform. The number of digital samples required is a function of the time-bandwidth product. For certain values of time-bandwidth product, this type of signal generation becomes extremely efficient. Several proofs are offered which show how to select \"optimum\" values of time-bandwidth products. Two hardware implementations are suggested. One is based on the use of modulo arithmetic and a small stored memory table. The second method utilizes the inherent signal symmetries available if \"optimum\" time-bandwidth products are selected. The symmetrical signal patterns are stored in recirculating reversible shift registers which can be read out at high speeds."
"Velocities of fluid flows and solid objects can be measured by performing photon count correlations on laser light scattered from the measuring region, the most common optical configuration being the laser Doppler system. A statistical analysis for the counting process is presented for both the constant velocity case and for turbulent fluid flows with formulations for specific laser Doppler configurations. For turbulent flow, relationships are derived for the shape of the count correlation in terms of the mean velocity and rms turbulent intensity, taking into account the shape of the turbulence correlation curve. Experimental results recorded for both a constant velocity solid object and for an unseeded turbulent air flow in a wind tunnel are presented, and, in the latter case, comparisons are made with hot-wire measurements."
"Recent developments in airborne Doppler and ground mapping navigation radars and ground and satellite based radio systems are described. Simultaneous lobing and slope tracking techniques can remove the well-known Doppler sea bias error in fast and slowly moving vehicles. Doppler velocity information can be extracted from coherent forward-looking mapping radars, and high position fixing accuracy can be achieved by synthetic aperture radars. In radio navigation systems, such as Loran, Omega, and satellite systems, direct-ranging and differential techniques greatly reduce the geometric dilution and propagation effects which have plagued conventional radio navigation systems. The advantages gained by mixing of the data from these and other navigation sensors in a digital multisensor system are discussed and approaches for processing these data are suggested."
"This paper discusses the relationships that must be considered in analyzing the design and performance of typical precision stabilization systems. In particular, the disturbance inputs that are due to kinematic and geometrical coupling are examined in depth by considering systems implemented with either a conventional two-axis gimbal or a traditional half-angle mirror assembly. The disturbance coupling that is associated with the gimbal drive actuators and the effect of structural compliance on the stabilization control loops are also discussed in detail. Other aspects of stabilization system design that are considered include the potential improvements in performance that can be achieved by using appropriate multiaxis gimbal configurations and by utilizing the angular pointing characterisitics of beam expansion telescopes."
"In this paper an exact closed-form expression for the radar detection probability is derived and results are plotted for a frequency diversity radar receiver. The receiver model performs post-detection integration on all received pulses in all diversity channels. The target model assumed is the slow fluctuating Rayleigh-distributed (Swerling case I target) scatterer. Each of the M frequency diverse channels receives N amplitude-correlated returns to give a total of NM post square-law detection integrations. The tabulated data falls between the two extreme cases, that for which all the returns are amplitude-correlated and that for which each return is independent. The plotted results fall close to the figures obtained through simple empirical relationships."
"Change in employment of engineers is shown to be related to the Deutsch and Shea Index of Engineering Demand. A relationship is given that shows the changes in engineering employment on a quarterly and annual basis. Engineering employment has turned upward for the first time since the last quarter of 1969. We have displaced and stored over 90 000 qualified engineers since 1969, in addition to displacing over 40 000 not qualified by an engineering education. Estimates by some of the need for 48 000 engineers per year is shown to be highly questionable. Current demand is still insufficient to absorb the current output without displacing some currently employed. It is suggested that demand in specialties can be determined by advertising lineage devoted to specialties in the same manner that the engineering demand is determined by the Deutsch and Shea Index. The years 1970, 1971, and 1972 were characterized by a decrease in employment of 62 000 engineers, 150 000 new graduates, 25 000 immigrants, and only 55 000 normal retirements and deaths."
"A model is presented for the estimation of azimuth and elevation in a dispersive media where the signals come from a continuum of directions. These bounds depend upon the array ambiguity patterns and the channel spread function. Specific cases are discussed showing how the result reduces to an easily tractable analytical tool in many cases of interest. The model discussed is applicable to angular estimation performance in the presence of such interference as diffuse multipath, chaff clouds, vertical angle of arrival spread in sonar systems, and turbulent and multiply scattered optical channels."
"The performance of angle of arrival estimates using an array in the presence of interfering signals is evaluated using the Cramer-Rao bound. To do this, a model for interference is developed which presents the interference as narrowband, temporally white, but spatially correlated, noise. The bound is evaluated and it is shown to depend upon the ambiguity function of the array and spatial correlation matrix of the noise plus interference. Motivation of the model in the context of air traffic control and sonar surveillance is presented."
"Sampling techniques provide a practical means of obtaining cross-correlation functions. In this paper, the correlation function is described by sums of the form Z = \\begin{equation*}Z = \\Sigma^{N}_{j=1}X_{j}Y_{j}\\end{equation*}. A general expression is derived for the probability density function of the random variable Z under the condition that Xj and Yj are stationary, jointly Gaussian random processes with nonzero means and unit variances."
"Future space exploration may involve communications between spacecraft moving at relativistic velocities. One of the significant problems associated with such communication is spectral distortion of signals which are propagated between relativistic frames. This distortion is generated by both changing propagation distances and purely relativistic electromagnetic field transformations. In this paper a linear integral transformation is formulated for relating the Fourier spectra of the source antenna excitation current and the resulting incident electric field at the receiving antenna. The kernel of the transformation is evaluated for the case of a steerable source antenna tracking on the advanced receiver position. The transformation is then applied to the case of an ideal thin-wire half-wave dipole source antenna excited by a narrowband, double-sideband modulated current. The specific distortions of spectral spreading and translation are then related to increased bandwidth and upper cutoff frequency requirements of receiving systems in relativistic applications."
"A statistical test is postulated for detecting, with an M-element hydrophone array, a Gaussian signal in spatially independent Gaussian noise of unknown power. The test is an extension of the uniformly-most-powerful (UMP) unbiased test for a two-element array. The output signal-to-noise ratio of the test is calculated and, for a large number of independent space-time samples, is shown to be no better than a mean-level detector (MLD). Receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) for the MLD are computed and compared to the ROC curves for the optimum (Bayes) parametric detector. The input signal-to-noise power ratios required to provide a detection probability of 0.5 differ by less than 0.2 dB for a fifty-element array with wide variation in false-alarm probability and time-bandwidth product. This result suggests that both the extended bivariate UMP unbiased test and the MLD perform close to the unknown UMP unbiased test for independence of a multivariate Gaussian distribution."
 "Several low-cost gyro-stabilized, bang-bang seeker assemblies for missile guidance and tracking applications have used similar physical structures. A magnetic dipole is an integral part of the gyro rotor assembly. The nominal spin axis of the gyro is colinear with the axis of a cylinder about which is wound a helix of wire. By properly modulating the current that is passed through that helix, the precession torque acting upon the gyroscope is controlled. One rather generalized model of such a seeker assembly is modeled, the equations of motion are derived, and the dominant error sources are identified and parametrically evaluated. Because this is such a commonly encountered structure, yet no such analysis has been published, to the author's knowledge, it is hoped that this is a useful contribution to the literature."
"Prominent among the commonly encountered gyro-stabilized assemblies used in guidance and tracking are those which are eddy-current torqued. Although eddy-current-torquecd lead- computing gunsights, which use spinning mirrors, have been well known for thirty years, it has been difficult to find an analysis of the torques developed by the precession mechanism. In this paper a model configuration of the torquer is presented. The total gyro dynamics are then determined by including these torque terms in the model presented in the preceding paper."
"The question of how multiple-pass data from the Navy Satellite System can be processed to yield an optimal estimate of the latitude, longitude, and elevation of a point on the Earth's surface is considered. It is demonstrated that the problem can be treated by use of modern estimation techniques. Two methods are considered: Kalman estimation and weighted least-squares estimation. The variance of the estimation errors is compared for a simulated sequence of 50 satellite passes."
"A mechanism by which an aircraft wake can interact strongly with the electromagnetic radiation present in an active elevated anomalous refractivity region (active feuillet) is analyzed. The aircraft wake structure, assumed to consist of twin contrarotating vortices plus entrained irrotational gas, trailing behind the wings of typical large aircraft is shown to be capable of descending a distance of approximately 3 wing span distances and attaining a length of the order of 10 km, prior to instability-induced disruption. The parcel of air such a descending coherent wake structure can convey into an active feuillet is demonstrated to alter significantly the local refractive index of the duct and induce substantial radiation spillage. The general characteristics of the electromagnetic radiation produced by this interaction process (i.e., scattering by diaphanous objects) is described."
"In an earlier paper by the authors1 it was mentioned that atmospheric attenuation effects could be included by assuming that the attenuation is directly proportional to number of air masses. While this assumption is valid for the optical region, it is not true in the microwave region (1 to 40 GHz). For a clear atmosphere, the two constituents which absorb microwaves are oxygen and water vapor. An analysis of the atmospheric attenuation data for the microwave region has been made and some rather simple expressions for computing the attenuation as a function of zenith angle are developed with an accuracy suitable for satellite antenna footprint calculations."
"Exact and approximate baseband models for the feedback FM demodulator are derived. Exact and approximate distortion equalizers that may be used to remove distortion in the output of the demodulator are also presented."
 "A comparison is made between optimum weighting, which maximizes Pd for a given α, and several MTI weightings. It is shown that a special case of the optimal weighting is approximately equal to the MTI weighting which maximizes the MTI improvement factor."
"The performance of certain radars is degraded in environments with significant clutter returns, and since the clutter is signal-generated, increasing the transmitted power does not improve the situation. However, changing the pulse width and pulse period of the transmitted signal can increase the input signal-to-interference ratio. In this correspondence, the transmitted signal is made up of pulses of random waveforms and the receiver is a correlator where the reference signal extends over many pulses. An expression for input signal-to-interference ratio as a function of pulse width and period is obtained for the case of a distributed target. This expression could be maximized by any of several methods, but to further elucidate the clutter reduction technique, contour plots of the input signal-to-interference ratio are presented."
"This correspondence derives simple expressions for the ambiguity function X and the Q function of uniformly spaced burst waveforms that are subject to independent random errors in the transmitter and receiver pulse phase and amplitude weightings. The expressions are similar to those in [1], but have been put in more simplified form, and are valid for more general sources of error."
"A transform is defined wherein a signal which consists of a large number of independent pulse trains can be analyzed and deinterleaved according to pulse repetition interval (PRI) even though constituent trains may occur as follows: 1) grouped in \"scan\" bursts, 2) as synchronized n-tuplets, 3) incomplete due to \"dropouts,\" 4) as staggered trains, or 5) with harmonically related PRI's. Computer simulations displaying some of the features of the transform are included. Detectability criteria are discussed."
 "This addendum to an earlier paper1 considers the possibility of obtaining a more appropriate value of the damping time constant T from the knowledge of the characteristic roots. The method used is based on postulating an exponential time function to describe the decay of spacecraft nutation. It is indicated that the present values of T are in closer agreement with those determined approximately in the previous paper."
    "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "Arrival time estimation by adaptive thresholding is described. The probability density of arrival time is derived for differentiable Markov processes. The special case of additive, stationary noise is given particular attention. A direct derivation of the probability density of arrival time for pulses with sharply rising edges is given for arbitrary noise. The results are applied to the Gaussian and Rice distributions. Comparison with the Cramer-Rao bound of estimation theory indicates the asymptotic optimality of adaptive thresholding in the latter two cases."
"The performance of glassed and unglassed Ti0x-coated silicon cells is compared to Si0-coated cells for coating thicknesses from 100 to 200 nm. The experiment was made on cells having initially the same quantum efficiency allowing complete separation of coating induced effects. U.S. cells only showed an adusted improvement of 2.6% for Ti0x-coatings over Si0-coatings as compared to an expected range of 4.8 to 5.5% as based on European investigations. Spectral reflectance analysis showed some destinct differences between the various cell types. This may be related to cell crystal orientation. All cells showed much higher reflectance at the minimum than predicted by theoretical analyses."
"A class of simple and efficient digital sequential detectors is presented, which are particularly suitable for application to radar systems where the antenna dwell time is easily varied. A methematical method, based on the random walk model, is developed to evaluate the DFTSD (digital fixed-thresholds sequential detector) performance. The DFTSD has a loss of 0.2 to 0.3 dB with respect to the digital SPRT (sequential probability ratio test) in the case of a single-range-bin system. Finally, results for the multiple-range-bin case are presented and compared with the performance of a moving-window detector."
"A communication system with a feedback channel which makes use of orthogonal M-ary signals is considered. The problem of its optimization, by setting a maximum time Tm to decide, is analyzed particularly so that the average energy per bit required to obtain a pre-fixed probability of error results as a minimum. The results, shown on graphs, allow one to evaluate the maximum decision time Tm and, afterwards, the maximum transmission rate."
"This paper describes an approach to the realization of a VLF loop-type antenna system. The theoretical analysis is applied to a four-loop system for Loran-C reception."
"Product correlators are being developed and implemented as a means of improving the guidance capability of tactical missiles. Analytical and experimental results are presented for maximizing the pull-in range of product area correlators via investigation of the discriminator curve of the correlator. The maps used in the correlation are assumed to be sample functions from two-dimensional, zero-mean, stationary Gaussian random processes. To obtain closed-form results, the additional assumption of a Gaussian correlation function is made. These analyses and results should be applicable to a wide range of correlation systems. Implications of these results as they pertain to missile guidance are discussed."
"A general expression of the output SNR of a photodetector is derived for a noise-like laser amplitude-modulated by a stationary Gaussian random modulating signal in the presence of a background light. The electric field Vx(t) of the noise-like laser is assumed to be a stationary narrowband Gaussian random process with zero mean. Two types of modulating signal are considered, the baseband and bandpass modulating signals. More specifically, the effects of the center frequency of the modulating signal, the modulating degree, the bandwidth ration of the noise-like laser to the modulating signal, the effective average quantum rate, and input CNR on output SNR are studied. The detection characteristics of the noise-like laser are also made clear by comparison with the case of a coherent laser."
"This paper analyzes the problem of communication from phase-modulated (PM) satellite transmitters which usually exhibit some degree of incidental amplitude modulation (AM). Hybrid analog-digital demodulator structures for this type of signal are presented using results of nonlinear estimation theory. It is shown that the structure of the optimal demodulator is nonlinear in nature. Hence, first- and second-order approximations are employed to yield physically realizable phase-lock loop structures. Such algorithms are applicable at sampling instants and linear predictory relationships between sampling instants are derived."
"The theory of \"continuous learning\" is applied here to the design of nonlinear sampled-data trackers. This theory provides a continuous-motion approximation of the discrete or sampled motion of the actual tracker. The theory prodicts the transient-response performance of the tracker as well as the mean-square errors caused by noise and statistical fluctuations in the signal. Numerical examples of first-order and second-order trackers designed by this technique are presented. These examples illustrate the adaptive behavior predicted by the technique. In one of these examples the trade-off between transient-response performance and the suppression of noise-induced tracking errors is demonstrated."
"Previous attempts to identify aircraft stability and control derivatives from flight test data, using three-degrees-of-freedom (3-DOF) longitudinal or lateral-directional perturbation equation-of-motion models, suffer from the disadvantage that the coupling between the longitudinal and lateral-directional dynamics has been ignored. In this paper, the identification of aircraft stability parameters is accomplished using a more accurate 6-DOF model which includes this coupling. Hierarchical system identification theory is used to reduce the computational effort involved. The 6-DOF system of equations is first decomposed into two 3-DOF subsystems, one for the longitudinal dynamics and the other for the lateral-directional dynamics. The two subsystem parameter identification processes are then coordinated in such a way that the overall system parameter identification problem is solved. Next, a six-subsystem decomposition is considered. Computational considerations and comparison with the unhierarchically structured problem are presented."
"The optimization and performance of the double-threshold or binary method of automatic radar detection has been the subject of numerous studies in the past, and the loss due to this approximation has been shown to be 1 to 2-1/2 dB. By quantization of the input video into more than two levels, this loss can be avoided; however, little information is available on appropriate design procedures and expected performance. In this paper empirical procedures are described to find good settings of the first and second threshold levels, and the corresponding detection performance is determined. These results, which are believed to be close to optimum, show that for the case of quantization into four levels (2 bits), the loss in decibels is reduced to approximately 1/3 of the corresponding value for the binary case. In some cases this is equivalent to a saving of as much as 1-1/2 dB in signal-to-noise ratio."
"The structure of Swerling's 1957 model for fluctuating radar cross section and signal amplitude is examined prinwrily in terms of mixture representations. The authors also show the relationship of Nakagami's m distrubution to Swerling's amplitude distribution, and Nakagami's q distribution (Hoyt vector density) is reduced to the Swerling distribution. Nonuniform phase distributions associated with Swerling's functions are also derived. Results are given when Swerling's amplitude density is used as a prior distribution with Bennett's (Rice's) distribution for the amplitude of a sine wave plus narrowband Gaussian noise."
 "Formulas for glint spectra due to Varshavchik, and based on FM noise theory, are applied to a symmetrical two-complex-source target, such as a twin-jet aircraft. Simple formulas are presented for the glint spectral density at zero frequency and for -3-dB frequency."
"In a retrodirective array, frequencies differing from the pilot signal retrodirect at different angles from that of the pilot. For the retrodirected beamwidth to cover the reception point over the desired bandwidth, the product of directivity and fractional bandwidth squared cannot exceed a maximum value. This value is dependent only upon the angular retrodirection range, with smaller angular ranges allowing a higher product. For example, a ±30 degree angular range and 5 percent bandwidth allows 36-dB directivity."
"From a collection of measurements of the radar cross section of ships at grazing incidence, an empirical formula is presented that relates cross section to radar frequency and ship displacement."
"Published comments on a recent paper criticized the use of inverse filtering as applied to resolution of overlapping radar signal returns. It is shown that an inadequate model of the inverse filter was assumed by the critic, which lead him to predict excessive time sidelobes at the filter output. It is demonstrated, by computer simulation, that the time sidelobes at the output of the true inverse filter are down 30 dB or more."
  "Coding gain is described as used in space communications engineering, and an empirical formula for coding gain is presented. The formula is designed to fit available performance data for Viterbi soft-decision decoding of various nonsystematic convolutional codes and to have a functional form suitable for computer implementation."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "Satellite communications technology has reached the stage at which it is feasible to develop a reliable military tactical communications system using small transportable Earth terminals. This paper discusses the design considerations involved for a multiple-access system, with particular reference to the Earth terminals."
"This paper studies the application of Kalman filtering to single-target track systems in airborne radar. An angle channel Kalman filter is configured which incorporates measures of range, range rate, and on-board dynamics. Theoretical performance results are given and a discussion of methods for reducing the complexity of the Kalman gain computation is presented. A suboptimal antenna controller which operates on the outputs of the angle Kalman filter is also described. In addition, methodological improvements are shown to exist in the design of range and range-rate trackers using the Kalman filter configuration."
"General expressions are obtained for output SNR for both amplitude- and intensity-modulated lasers, where bandlimited Gaussian noise has been chosen as a modulating signal, and in the presence of background light. Two types of modulating signals are considered: the baseband and bandpass modulating signals. Detailed calculations are made for output SNR when an ideal narrowband optical filter is used. The dependence of output SNR on several parameters, such as the center frequency of the modulating signal, the effective average quantum rate, and input SNR, are discussed. In addition, the difference in performance between amplitude and intensity modulation is discussed. The detection characteristics of the homodyne system are also considered."
"The sensitivity of observed data to an unknown parameter is enhanced by utilizing optimal inputs. The derivation is given for the optimal input of an nth-order nonlinear differential equation. To obtain the optimal input, the solution of 4n two-point boundary value equations is required. Numerical resutis are given for a second order linear example. The optimal return is compared with the return obtained for a step input. The existence of a critical time length is demonstrated."
"This paper describes some new concepts in dealing with the circuitry for Loran-C automatic timing systems. The conventional analog techniques associated with phase-adjusting networks have been replaced by an incremental digital phase-shifting device. The Loran-C period generator includes facilities for delay compensation by means of an epoch monitor producing a 1-Hz output coincident with the master station TOC (time of coincidence). The required initial time information has to be accurate within ± 20 ms. The automatic format identification and decoding equipment together form a system which takes into account the information of every Loran-C pulse. Owing to the use of digital signal treatment, the synchronization accuracy is limited only by the resolution of the incremental phase shift. The automatic cycle selection device is based on sampling techniques where the derivative of the envelope is calculated. The time of coincidence has to be precalculated and fed into the thumbwheel memory of the epoch monitor, which is automatically initiated when the synchronizing operations are concluded. For VLBI purposes and transcontinental use, the accuracy of this system will be better than 1 μs when post corrections, supplied by the U.S. Naval Observatory, are taken into account."
"An extension to the basic concept of correlation detection as a means of image registration is developed. The technique involves linear spatial preprocessing of the inages to be registered prior to the application of a correlation measure. This preprocessing operation utilizes the spatial correlation within each image and greatly improves the detectability of image misregistration. An analysis of the computational aspects of the algorithm is given. Also, results of a computer simulation to evaluate the technique are given."
"Acquisition in a communication receiver is the operation of determining the arrival time of a transmitted periodic timing marker. This is generally accomplished by sending a known acquisition waveform to aid in the arrival time measurement. Certain classes of waveforms are called rapid acquisition waveforms and are advantageous for reducing the time to acquire when sequential methods are used. A multiple-access acquisition environment occurs when a multiplicity of transmitter-receivers are attempting to each individually perform an acquisition operation, each pair interfering with all others. In this paper, a study is made of the interference effects when rapid acquisition techniques are used in a multiple-access environment. The prime object is to determine the manner in which the actual acquisition waveform structure effects the overall system performance. When interference variance is used as a criterion, it is shown that rapid acquisition waveforms made up of component waveforms having disjoint, flat, wideband spectra produce minimal interference. The result suggests the use of coded tone acquisition waveforms. The results have primary application to ranging, surveillance, or navigation operations performed in a many-user situation."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of measuring the mean frequency of the power spectrum of a zero-mean, stationary, narrowband Gaussian random signal in the presence of additive Gaussian noise. Signal-to-noise ratios at the output of the mean frequency measurement system using correlation detection are analyzed in terms of input signal-to-noise ratio, input signal and noise bandwidths, and integration time. The results obtained are verified experimentally, and a comparison with a conventional zero-crossing detector is also made."
"Precise measurement and spacecraft tracking are obtained by using phase-locked loops in cascade in two-way communications links. Statistics on cycle slip time are of vital importance in system planning and design. This paper presents: 1) results of a computer simulation study of the mean time to first cycle slip of cascade phase-locked loops preceded by bandpass limiters, and 2) the determination of probability distributions of cycle slip. Numerical results are obtained for a typical coherent communication system."
"A method for calculating the bends in the glide slope due to uneven terrain is presented. A computer program written for the purpose enables the calculation of the difference in depth of modulation (DDM) at any point, taking into account the effect of uneven terrain. Results are presented for a hypothetical case of a hill in front of the runway. The program enables us to predict the glide slope bends due to irregular terrain, so that proper selection of glide slope antenna location can be made."
"With wideband pseudo-noise (PN) communications systems, it is sometimes desirable to supplement the inherent interference rejection capabilities by adding notch filters to attenuate relatively narrowband interference. This correspondence presents an investigation of the effects of notch filters on the performance of PN correlation receivers. A theoretical analysis of the correlation drop due to filter distortion has been conducted and confirmed by experimentation. Additional measurements and analysis have established the trade-off between correlation drop and interference suppression as a function of interference bandwidth. A typical result is that by incurring a penalty of a 1-dB drop in correlation peak, interfering signals having bandwidths of 2 to 3 percent of the PN chip rate can be attenuated by 25 dB."
"A filtering technique is described which permits time sidelobe suppression of small time-bandwidth product shirp. Signal-to-noise loss and time sidelobe level sensitivity to Doppler shift are presented for a filtered chirp waveform whose time-bandwidth product is 10."
 "Additional observations and examples applied to the above correspondence are given."
"Assume E1 and E2 are the squares of two sequential envelopes from the sequential lobing of an antenna in a given plane. Independent thermal noise is generally present in the envelopes. The statistic ϵ = (E2 - E1)/(E2 + E1) has been used as an estimate of the angle to a target for the significant region of small angles compared to a beamwidth. For a nonfading target, the probability density and characteristic function of e are obtained in closed form. Thence, the exact bias, standard deviation, and rms error in estimating the noise-free value ϵ of ϵ are obtained for all e and signal-to-noise ratios. The same type of statistic as ϵ can be used to estimate time delay in a split range gate tracker."
    "Dual Mode Transit has been suggested as a possible solution to some of the problems associated with transportation in the world today. This paper summarizes the program developed by the Urban Mass Transportation Administration in order to develop and test the Dual Mode concept from the viewpoint of GM, one of the contractors participating in the Concept Design phase of the program. The baseline system design proposed by the contractor and the general scenario which Dual Mode Transìt is intended to satisfy are also covered in some detail."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "The application of frequency-tracking systems to the analysis of laser doppler velocimeter (LDV) signals degraded by background noise has been studied both theoretically and experimentally. Expressions are derived for both the correlation function and the expected value of the phase derivative in the general case of noise off center from the Doppler frequency, and these results are specialized to specific cases of practical interest. Laboratory measurements of output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and dc error, for varying input SNR and noise center frequency offset, show good agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"In this paper the array detection problem for certain deterministic signals in spatially uncorrelated Gaussian noise is formulated in Bayesian terms and the required likelihood ratios and resulting performance characteristics are obtained. Primary emphasis is on detection of targets of unknown spatial location using a likelihood ratio approach, with the target location treated as a random parameter, rather than an estimator-correlator approach. The tradeoff among array parameters and signal parameters is demonstrated. It is shown that the dominant uncertainty affecting detection performance seems to be that of location when compared with uncertainty on energy and/or phase."
"The performance of a wideband frequency divider with two independent sinusoidal input signals present is analyzed. Both the case of a relative low-level spurious signal and the case of a relative high-level spurious signal are considered. It is ascertained that a considerable reduction of the spurious signal is achieved and the exact nature of the improvement is dependent on the relative strength of the spurious signal."
"An empirical model for energetic solar proton fluxes is presented. With this model the effects of such protons on geocentric space missions, to be flown during the next solar active period (1977-1983), and with orbits involving partial magnetospheric shielding, may be estimated. A synoptic background review is given, followed by a detailed discussion of the model's use, errors, uncertainties, and limitations, including sample calculations which demonstrate the application of specific or general project missions. Finally, for circular trajectories, percentage exposure maps are presented, depicting fractional mission times spent outside particular L shells as functions of orbit altitude and inclination. The distinguishing assumptions of this analysis are: 1) that the solar proton flux in the 10-100 MeV energy range, as accumulated over solar cycle 20 due to several discrete events, will be accumulated at a uniform rate for the seven active years of solar cycle 21; and 2) that all protons in the energy range of interest have a common geomagnetic latitude cutoff."
"A crucial part of so-called \"strapdown\" techniques for inertial guidance systems is the generation of the matrix of direction cosines relating the body axes to the reference axes. This is generally done by direct integration of a set of differential equations having the body angular velocities as inputs. This paper is devoted to an error analysis of two commonly used integration schemes, namely, direction cosines and quaternions. Scale, skew, and drift errors are defined, and the susceptibility of the integration schemes to these types of error is examined. It is concluded that the quaternion scheme offers an advantage because it intrinsically yields zero skew error. The paper is presented in two parts, for convenience."
"Shock waves originating from hypersonic projectiles flown in ballistic ranges and subsequently reflected from the range walls have been found to produce undesirable effects on the measurements of projectile wakes. This paper reports on the mechanisms through which reflected shock waves perturb the wake, the design, and installation of full-scale fiberglas wedge shock attenuation treatments, the design of equipment for minimum shock reflection, and the results of measurements of the performance of the treatment."
"This paper examines the capabilities of the class of linear FM spread-spectrum signals within the context of potential communications systems usage in order to establish some performance criteria and bounds that permit comparison with other spread-spectrum formats. A systematic basis is provided for parameter selection for this class of signals by examining the interaction a mong the frequency-modulation indices, time-bandwidth product, and cross-talk criteria that determine the number of effective linear FM signals (or channels) that can be used within the constraints of a bounded time-frequency region. A general expression is derived relating N, the number of useful signals, R2, a cross-talk parameter, ToWo, the mean time-bandwidth product, and μμmax and μmin, the maximum and minimum FM rates of the signal set. Canonic signal processor structures are described for ensembles of linear FM signals that have either constant duration or constant bandwidth. It is then shown that the signal modulation format can be modified in accordance with classical paired-echo theory to expand the utility of this class of signals in both synchronous and nonsynchronous operations to yield the equivalent of time-division and code multiplexing. Possible applications for this signal format are discussed."
"A distribution-free Doppler processor (DFDP) is described. This procedure is applicable to the detection of signals with unknown phase or signals which undergo a change in phase from one observation to the next. The procedure has the characteristic that the false-alarm probability is a constant, independent of the probability distribution of the received data when no signal is present. Also, an estimate of the Doppler frequency, when applied to a Doppler radar processor, is provided."
"An experiment is described by which the ephemeris of a near-synchronous satellite was determined from passive range observations. The data consist of the measured times of reception at ground tracking stations of electromagnetic signals which are radiated from the satellite at regular intervals. A comparison of the ephemeris to one obtained from Doppler tracking indicates an accuracy of better than 4.9 mrad rms."
"The real-time tracking and orbit determination program used on board the NASA tracking ship, the USNS Vanguard, is described in this paper. The computer program uses a variety of filtering algorithms, including an extended Kalman filter, to derive real-time orbit determinations (position-velocity state vectors) from shipboard tracking and navigation data. Results from Appolo missions are given to show that orbital parameters can be estimated quickly and accurately using these methods."
"A mathematical model to study target image return frequency spectrums in Doppler radars is described. The model includes the effects of eclipsing, sea surface slope distribution, and surface reflectivity characteristics. The procedure of calculations has been computerized and the analytical results are compared to flight-test values obtained from flights over the ocean. The calculated values of amplitude-frequency spectrums of target image returns correspond reasonably well with the respective recorded flight-test data."
"The monopulse angle of arrival measured from two targets may wander far beyond the angular separation of the targets. In order to remove large errors, angle of arrival measurements are passed through a threshold detector and the measurements which do not satisfy the threshold are rejected. Thresholding has the tendency to move the mean indicated angle of arrival away from the stronger target and toward the power centroid of the targets, which may be undesirable in some applications. Expressions for the probability density function, the mean, and the variance of the in-phase angle of arrival are developed in this paper as a function of the threshold setting. Background noise and interfering signals are neglected in the analysis."
"One of the most important parameters for the study of the physics of the ionosphere is the columnar electron content. This can be obtained indirectly by measuring the Faraday rotation of signals emitted from satellites. Many different types of polarimeters have been developed for this purpose. Efforts to develop a new type of polarimeter, suitable for extensive network operation, led to a novel technique for measuring the polarization angle."
"Contained herin is a derivation of two figures of merit for evaluating the performance of a product correlator and an associated discriminator curve. The general formulas are valid for both area and one-dimensional scenes. An explicit evaluation of the formulas is presented when the correlation functions are also Gaussian. In this case, the accuracy and probability of false match are found to take very simple forms."
"State and Federal legislative actions intended to improve and to preserve the quality of our environment and to conserve our natural resources were developed and implemented in a logical sequence, synchronized with our own social development and awareness of the need for specific legislative, punitive, or constructive actions. At all times, the desired legislation was developed through a consensus of opinions, needs, and costs that were to be incurred by the affected parties. In some cases, the Federal Government found it necessary to increase its budget allocations in areas where an immediate relief was needed and large losses were anticipated."
"Attention is called to the phenomenon of \"range-Doppler coupling,\" characteristic of linear FM (chirp) waveforms, and the strong effect this coupling may have on tracking accuracy. Numerical results are presented for simple three-state filters and for a realistic reentry vehicle tracking problem."
"A survey of the literature indicates an inconsistency in the definition of the radar ambiguity function. This correspondence suggests a definition consistent with Woodward's intent."
    "This correspondence considers the use of a stepped phase shifter as an approximation to continuous phase shifting for serrodyne frequency translation. Variations in translation loss and suppression of undesirable components as a function of the number of steps used is presented."
"The antenna elevation control signal and the associated staticequilibrium equations are analyzed for the case of tracking of lowaltitude targets for both monopulse and conical-scanning radar. Three possible equilibrium positions of the radar antenna under static operating conditions are ascertained. The static solutions suggest certain dynamic solutions that are likely to arise under practical conditions. The extreme values of the pointing error are shown in graphical form."
"Several points relating to earlier work in this field are raised. Discrepancies in presentation are mentioned. The efficiency of the use of frequency diversity channels is discussed. It is pointed out that other modes of video recombination might be important in an interference environment and reference is made to some recent reports."
  "Presents abstracts of papers that were presented at this conference."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "An experiment concerning the broadcasting of time and frequency information from geostationary satellites is discussed. Included are discussions on satellite motion, time delay, Doppler shift, and delay calculations. Ground station requirements, time recovery techniques, and timing resolution and accuracy are also included. Delay computation aids for the user were designed to provide free space delays between the master clock and the user. Measurements made in North and South America demonstrated a timing resolution of about 10 μs and an accuracy of 25 μs."
"The modified generalized sign test processor is a nonparametric, adaptive detector for 2-D search radars. The detector ranks a sample under test with its neighboring samples and integrates (on a pulse-to-pulse basis) the ranks with a two-pole filter. A target is declared when the integrated output exceeds two thresholds. The first threshold is fixed and yields a 10-6 probability of false alarm when the neighboring samples are independent and identically distributed. The second threshold is adaptive and maintains a low false-alarm rate when the integrated neighboring samples are correlated and when there are nonhomogeneities, such as extraneous targets, in the neighboring cells. Using Monte Carlo techniques, probability of false-alarm results, probability of detection curves, and angular accuracy curves have been generated for this detector. The detector was built and PPI photographs are used to indicate the detector's performance when the radar is operated over land clutter."
"This paper presents a theory for computing the signal acquisition time of a second-order tracing system operating in the frequency-search mode. In particular, a closed-form expression is obtained which relates the acquisition time to the relevant system parameters, to the initial loop detuning, and to the slope of the ramp that sweeps the voltage-controlled oscillator. Although the theory is only approximate and the resulting formula is exact only in the limit when the initial loop detuning ΔF goes to infinity, it has been found that it gives quite accurate results as soon as ΔF is some times greater than the equivalent noise bandwidth of the loop."
"This paper gives performance results for transversal-filter equalization of quadriphase phase-shift-keyed (QPSK) signals with two-component multipath and demodulator phase error. An analytical expression for optimum, minimum mean-square-error tap weights in terms of the multipath and signal parameters is given. Probability of error results for no equalization and equalization with adaptive decision-feedback tap-weight adjustment are compared. The results show that significant improvement can be obtained with relatively simple equalizer structures."
"In the ASTRO-DABS concept for surveillance and data link, aircraft are interrogated by one of three geostationary transmitter satellites, each covering 1/3 of the contiguous United States. Interrogation scheduling involves a roll call such that aircraft responses to receiving satellites do not overlap (garble). A simple approach is developed which utilizes range ordering of aircraft with respect to transmitter satellites, but is independent of receiver satellite locations and aircraft distribution. Bounds on roll-call duration are established, showing that interrogation of 80 000 aircraft requires between 4.0 and 6.4 seconds with the ASTRO-DABS transmission format. If aircraft distribution is regionally concentrated (i.e., clustered), the roll-call duration nears the lower bound, since fewer gaps between interrogations are needed to preclude garbling."
"This paper develops, in a unique manner, a numeric algorithm for an integration and extrapolation scheme. The purpose of presenting it in this manner is to develop in the reader a complete understanding of how the algorithm is derived. It is also intended to give an insight into the limitations of the algorithm and to serve as a tool to derive additional integration schemes."
"An expression is derived for the autocorrelation function of the output of a hard limiter whose input is stationary Gaussian noise with zero mean plus independent random-phase sinusoidal signal. The output spectrum may then be evaluated. This spectrum is extremely useful in understanding the properties of a filter-limit-filter-detect signal processor whose signal input is an actual sinusoid, or when a sinusoid is used as a test signal."
"Coherent high-resolution synthetic-aperture radar systems achieve their range resolution by pulse compression and azimuth resolution by compression of naturally generated FM coding due to Doppler shifts as the aircraft flies by the target. If the data is left unprocessed, it is, in effect, a defocused map of the terrain. As such, it should exhibit less dynamic range than if the data is compressed. This paper describes an experimental study to verify the above conjecture. The results of this study indicate that if dynamic range of the data link is a problem, the radar data should be transmitted in its unprocessed form. This might very well be the case for planetary mapping by means of satellites."
"In this paper is formulated the problem of optimization of the improvement factor of a nonrecursive MTI by minimization of a quadratic form. The minimum normalized clutter output (a reciprocal of the average improvement factor) is the minimum eigenvalue of this quadratic form, and the corresponding eigenvector is the optimal weight to be used in this filter. By use of classic matrix theory, some properties of this MTI improvement factor are shown, namely, that it is bounded and is a monotonic function of the clutter spectrum variance. Also discussed is the limit of an MTI system having a large number of cancellers. Finally, the problem of a staggered-PRF MTI filter is examined, for which it is shown that its improvement factor is bounded by two equivalent constant-PRF MTI systems. One of these systems has a PRF equal to the lowest PRF of the staggered-PRF system, while the other has a PRF equal to the highest PRF of the staggered system."
"A technique is presented which simplifies the analysis of sampled-data control systems. The use of a finite-term approximation to the Poisson summation rule, in conjunction with digital computer evaluation, is presented as a good alternative to use of the Z transform whenever frequency-domain analysis is required. The Poisson summation rule is reviewed and its application to sampled-data system analysis is discussed. The form of the computer program used in the analysis is presented, along with a design criterion to evaluate the accuracy of the technique. A detailed example of a typical application is presented."
"A user-oriented method for generating velocity estimates based on phase measurements of radio navigation transmissions like Omega is presented. Various geometric schemes, together with numerical implementation of the algorithm, are discussed."
"Acquisition of the idling first-order phase-locked loop (PLL) is investigated. An analytical solution for the Fokker-Planck equation is found if the noise term is neglected. Furthermore, the modulation signal that optimizes the acquisition is obtained by use of phase-plane techniques and Pontryagin's minimum principle."
"Based on mathematical analysis, this paper points out that restrictions in stator/rotor slot combinations for optimum output of a conventional inductor alternator are not applicable for one with a single winding for both dc excitation and output. Design considerations for the latter are discussed, and it is demonstrated that its performance is superior to a conventional double-winding inductor alternator in all aspects. Test results on a number of experimental machines fully support the theory."
"This paper reports some results on the development of finite-lag receivers for reception via fading channels. The receivers are given in discrete form and clearly show the additional complexity due to introduction of delay between the instants of reception and estimation of the signal. The channel noise has been assumed to have a multiplicative component due to fading. This results in the optimal demodulators being nonlinear and unrealizable. However, the receivers proposed are suboptimal, but realizable. Simulation studies evaluating the performance of the various receivers are also discussed."
"This paper presents the sensitivity analysis of a class of receivers called finite-lag receivers, introduced by the authors in [1] through [3]. Since these receivers are based on the use of fixed-lag smoothing techniques, algorithms for the calculation of large-scale and small-scale sensitivities of fixed-lag smoothing are derived using a state augmentation approach. Steady-state analysis of these algorithms shows that an explicit relation can be obtained between sensitivity coefficients of fixed-lag smoothing and filtering. The specific case of sensitivity to variations in the measurement (channel) noise is considered as an example. These results are applied to study the sensitivity performance of the finite-lag receivers for analog communication. It is shown, for example, that finite-lag receivers for AM signals, besides being superior in performance [1]-[3], [11], in terms of output SNR or error variance, are also much less sensitive to the additive noise power level, compared to zero-lag receivers."
"Novel demodulator structures are derived using a theory for the quasi-optimal on-line demodulation of pulse-frequency modulated (PFM) signals in the presence of white Gaussian channel noise. The basic demodulator consists of a phase-locked loop with time-varying gain elements. Furthermore, its integrators are appropriately reset as each new pulse is received. This modulator may be augmented with additional integrators and gain elements to achieve quasi-optimal demodulation with delay. The quasi-optimal demodulation approaches optimal demodulation, in the minimum mean-square-error sense, as the signal-to-noise ratio increases. The various quasi-optimal receivers are derived by application of the extended Kalman filter theory to a state-space signal model."
"An analysis of the behavior of a second-order phase-locked loop is presented when an unwanted signal is added to the useful signal. Both signals are sinusoidal and unmodulated, and the analysis is made in the absence of additive noise. When the loop remains locked on the useful signal, a parasitic signal exists at the phase detector output. This signal produces a parasitic phase modulation of the VCO and a static phase error in the loop. The parasitic signal amplitude, the parasitic phase modulation index, and the static phase error are calculated. A necessary condition for the loop to remain in lock is derived. When the loop is initially unlocked, locking can occur either on the useful signal or on the unwanted signal, depending on the amplitude ratio and the frequency difference of the two signals. A formula allowing one to compute the pull-in time is obtained. When the loop locks on the useful signal, acquisition can be slower or faster than in the absence of an unwanted signal. The same phenomenon is observed when the loop locks on the unwanted signal."
"This paper investigates the effects of fading and predetection diversity on the error-rate performance of digital FM discriminator systems. Results are presented in graphs showing the relative improvement of the error rate for several types of diversity, and are compared with the well-known FSK systems. It is also shown that an optimum modulation index giving the minimum attainable probability of error for narrowband digital FM is not affected by the effect of fading, carrier-to-noise ratio, or the types and order of diversity."
"A functional description with timing diagrams of two example cases is given, describing an all-digital second-order PLL, which will correct frequency as well as phase errors. Approximations yield the equivalent continuous second-order loop, so that loop parameters might easily be designed."
"A general expression is derived for the probability density function of the output of a cross correlator, the inputs of which are assumed to consist of clipped sine waves of similar frequency plus uncorrelated, stationary Gaussian noise. The correlator output is shown to be a piecewise linear function of the random phase difference between the two input processes; hence, the density function for the correlator output is obtained by a relatively simple transformationfrom the probability density function of the random phase difference."
 "Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"For large-aperture antennas, it is customary to utilize radio stars in order to determine the receiving gain to temperature ratio. In the case of small-aperture antennas, which not only have reduced gain but usually higher system noise temperature as well, the y factors obtained from the radio star measurements are so small that the measurement error is intolerable. The moon, on the other hand, provides a power flux density higher by at least one order of magnitude compared to the strongest radio star, and the resulting y factors are usable. G/T ratios determined from moon measurements agree well with expected values."
"The difficulties of using, as references, reports whose distribution is limited is discussed, and it is suggested that authors of such reports must bear the burden of having them released before they take to task IEEE authors who fail to cite them."
  "Man-uses of Electromagnetic Energy to cause beneficial effects, and to avoid potentially hazardous effects by controlling the electric and magnetic fields in his Environment are discussed. Included is a discussion of natural and man-made electromagnetic generators; the electrical nature of man; effects produced in exposed objects; the scope of the uses of Electromagnetic Technology; and their regulation by Public Laws."
"The 1974 Power Electronics Specialists Conference Record has been issued as a publication of record by the IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Society. Abstracts of the papers contained in the Record are published here for your convenience and information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "In July 1970 the United States Department of Justice accused the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) of violating the Sherman Antitrust Act and of acting in restraint of trade by restricting the ASME Certificate of Authorization and the use of the Code Symbol Stamps to boilers and pressure vessels manufactured in the United States and Canada. During the succeeding two years attorneys for the parties in the case formulated a Consent Decree without a public confrontation in the Court. Furthermore, the membership of ASME was kept uninformed until October of 1972, after the Consent and Final Judgment had become effective and new procedures had been developed for allowing foreign manufacturers to apply the ASME Code Symbol Stamps to their products. As a consequence, a breakdown in engineered safety standards has been sanctioned and this is undermining the engineering profession's overriding responsibility to protect the public health and safety. This breakdown of professional responsibility is especially serious in the new technology of atomic power. American insurance companies, which have traditionally written 100% insurance coverage for property damage and third party liability against explosions of high pressure steam boilers bearing the ASME Code Stamp, have refused to write such insurance coverage on nuclear reactors. In the author's opinion there is evidence that the Consent was formulated under collusive proceedings and he calls on the members and the Council of ASME to appeal for dismissal of the Consent Decree."
"Differential time-delay errors in HF hyperbolic position-fixing systems arising from ionospheric propagation time delays are estimated by employing a propagation prediction model for several path-pairs. A comparison of the prediction model results with experimental observations indicates that the differential time-delay errors can be reduced significantly by the use of the prediction model."
"An active array processor is concerned with the problem of detecting a signal echo, reflected from a target, in the presence of reverberation (clutter). The processor can also be used to estimate target range and bearing. It is a priori not evident whether the optimum (likelihood ratio) detector can be factored into spatial and temporal operations, thus resulting in a simpler processor implementation. This paper studies this problem for a linear continuous array in a reverberation-limited environment. Conditions on signal, reverberation, and array parameters are derived under which the optimum detector is factorable. The validity of using factorability as a criterion of signal design is briefly examined. Finally, the relationship between space-time factorability and range-bearing estimates is pointed out."
"The complex indicated angle technique, applicable to monopulse radars, is being investigated as a means of overcoming the serious degradation of elevation measurement caused by multipath when the target is within a beamwidth or so of the horizon. This technique makes use of the quadrature-phase component of the normalized difference signal, as well as the in-phase component. Results of analysis and computer simulation have been published previously. This paper reports results of a test program using a slightly modified AN/FPS-16 monopulse tracking radar and a simulated target. The results to date indicate a potential for high accuracy, though there are limitations as to the applications for which the technique appears feasible. A computer program has been developed to perform the elevation estimate and to resolve ambiguities."
"The problem considered in this paper is the detection of a signal known except for time-varying carrier phase in white Gaussian noise. The method of attacking this problem is to model the time-varying carrier phase as a Markov process. Fourier transform techniques are then applies to yield a simple time-wise adaptive form for the phasetracking detector. Optimal accounting for the time variations in phase is accomplished via a simple algorithm which serves to update the detector memory. Furthermore, it is shown that this memory updating operation is a discrete linear filter whose impulse response is a simple function of the previous memory state and the Markov transitional statistics on the phase. A priori knowledge regarding the phase is summarized in the initial impulse response of the updating filter."
"Analysis of the performance of a mean-level threshold in the detection of nonfluctuating signals is performed. Formulas for the probability of detection are derived and a simple recursive method that can be used for computations is described. Binary integration is discussed, and it is shown that the loss in sensitivity due to the use of an adaptive threshold followed by binary integration is only a fraction of a decibel when compared with optimum binary integration. Binary integration results are given for both fluctuating and nonfluctuating signals."
"A new concept in synthetic aperture radar, called SASAR, which uses a segmented aperture, is described. Use of the segmented aperture allows appreciable extra receiving antenna gain to be realized. Each subarray of the receive antenna is equal in length to the transmit antenna; the system performance is increased approximately by a factor equal to the number of subarrays. To allow array combination of the subarray signal outputs requires a phase-shift factor (varying with azimuth) to be applied to each subarray signal. A digital implementation of this preprocessor is sketched out; it uses a push-down storage stack to store the range histories for a synthetic aperture from each subarray. Appropriate phase shifts are added to the stacks and a sum of stack values then provides the combined output range history sequence. Possibilities of using analog delay lines for preprocessing are also discussed. Pattern errors due to subarray size and receive array near field are examined and constraints are given."
"The MOD is described as an urban transportation system which is based on a very small, two-passenger automotive rental vehicle using existing city roadways at the exclusion of the private passenger car. The proposed units of the MOD system have an empty weight of 300 pounds and have provisions for easy vertical parking. The MOD system is proposed as a self-supporting operation, run by private enterprise as a public utility. The urban transportation offered by the MOD system generates the set of institutional problems involved in proposals which exclude the private passenger car from the city."
"A technique to reduce radar pointing errors due to glint using frequency agility and amplitude weighting is presented. The reduction in rms tracking error is developed into an equation dependent upon the original glint tracking error, σg, and the number of returns weighted, N. The rms tracking error is thereby reduced approximately by a factor of N. Finally, the equation formulated allows one to evaluate the reduction in glint error versus the number of frequencies chosen for frequency agility."
"Interference in the form of multipath or uncooperative targets can seriously degrade the angle-of-arrival estimation accuracy of mutiplebeam processors. In this paper, the generalized likelihood ratio test is used to derive a test to detect the presence of interference for multiple beam processors. The detector performance is then analyzed in detail with respect to its dependence on signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), signal-to-interference ration (SIR), and on the relative phase between the target and interfering signals. It is shown that good detection performance can be obtained unless the phase difference between the target and interference signals is either in or out of phase."
"The theory of linear statistical models is implemented to obtain an algorithm which accurately locates radar sites. True bearing and navigation data are used as input. The linear model developed is adaptable and allows removal of bearing errors that are nonrandom, or systematic. The model may be written in recursive form and used for real-time applications."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of tracking radar targets in the low-angle regime where conventional tracking radars encounter difficulty due to the presence of a surface-reflected ray. Starting with a classical maximum-likelihood analysis of the problem of two closely spaced targets, two different techniques are evolved which are theoretically capable of dealing with the multipath problem. The expected accuracy has been studied both analytically and by means of computer simulations. Experimental programs have demonstrated the feasibility of both techniques. The paper also includes a discussion of certain alternative solutions to the problem."
"In many applications, the practical usefulness of adaptive arrays is limited by their convergence rate. The adaptively controlled weights in these systems must change at a rate equal to or greater than the rate of change of the external noise field (e.g., due to scanning in a radar if step scan is not used). This convergence rate problem is most severe in adaptive systems with a large number of degrees of adaptivity and in situations where the eigenvalues of the noise covariance matrix are widely different. A direct method of adaptive weight computation, based on a sample covariance matrix of the noise field, has been found to provide very rapid convergence in all cases, i.e., independent of the eigenvalue distribution. A theory has been developed, based on earlier work by Goodman, which predicts the achievable convergence rate with this technique, and has been verified by simulation."
"The g-h filter is often used as a tracking filter. Assuming that the target under track is modelled as a constant-velocity system with a correlated random acceleration, equations are derived for the covariances of the filtered and predicted estimates. These equations are useful to predict the performance of the filter and to select suitable parameters so as to improve performance."
"For most efficient performance in frequency-division multiple access (FDMA), a hard-limiting repeater should be operated completely channelized (i.e., each uplink carrier should be individually filtered and power-controlled prior to spacecraft limiting and downlink transmission). When there are a large number of uplink carriers involved, however, complete channelization is no longer feasible, and the uplink carriers must be grouped together (assigned frequencies), which allows joint filtering and amplification. In this correspondence, it is shown that an optimal grouping procedure always exists for minimizing required repeater power, no matter how many carriers and groups are to be used."
"The envelope variation of an LFM waveform due to transmitter droop or receiver STC tends to cause range sidelobes. A parametric analysis of the magnitude of the sidelobes has been performed. It is shown that the sidelobes can be quite high at the matched filter output, but are low at the output of the sidelobe reduction filter. 40-dB sidelobes can be achieved even with a 4-dB envelope droop. It is shown that these results are consistent with conventional paired-echo theory. Similar results are shown to hold for droop variations of the filter transfer function."
"Clutter-locking criteria for various types of cancellers and clutter spectra are discussed. It is shown that the proper locking criterion for general asymmetric clutter spectra is different from that applicable to those spectra which have even symmetry or are very narrow."
"A general model is presented for calculating detection and falsealarm probabilities for the automated change detector. The model is then applied to determine PD'PF for the \"target-no target\" type change; the resulting PD and PF are compared to the one-channel case."
 "A simple method is presented for computing the output signal distortion resulting from relative phase and gain errors between the two quadrature detector channels of a baseband processing system. Signal-to-noise loss and sidelobe levels are computed for two types of waveforms to illustrate the utility of the method."
"Error probabilities are calculated for two detectors deciding which of two Gaussian images is present on the basis of the numbers and origins of photoelectrons ejected from the image plane. One detector is the optimum likelihood-ratio detector; the other compares the numbers of electrons from the two halves of the image plane. The results show that the performance of the former is better, although the latter is much easier to operate."
"A procedure based on the envelope concept of differential geometry is described that permits the reconstruction of the contour of a smooth, moving, conducting target, satisfying the geometrical optics approximation. The target reflections are assumed to be specular in nature with either one reflection point or multiple resolvable reflection points. The time variation of the range to the reflection point of the target (assumed derivable from a high-resolution radar) and the general motion of the target (assumed derivable from tracking or trajectory information) are employed to reconstruct the contour of that portion of the assumed target surface that is illuminated by the radar. The reconstruction is accomplished by the simultaneous solution of two nonlinear differential equations which are derived using the envelope concept of differential geometry. Several reconstruction examples based on computer analysis are presented which indicate the results obtainable using this method."
"A two-dimensional x, y Kalman tracking filter is analyzed for a track-while-scan (TWS) operation when the radar sensor measures range and bearing (r, θ) at uniform sampling intervals T seconds apart. This development explicitly considers the coupling between the quantities measured by the sensor (r, θ) and the Cartesian x, y coordinate system selected for the tracking operation. The steadystate components of the gain and error covariance matrixes are analytically determined under the assumption of a white noise maneuver acceleration model in two dimensions. These results are verified by computer calculation of the Kalman filter matrix equations."
"Master-slave sequence ordering of the OMEGA system is suggested as a method of improving the pair geometry for low-cost receiver user benefit. The sequence change will not affect present sophisticated processor users other than require new labels for some pair combinations, but may require worldwide transmitter operators to slightly alter their long-range synchronizing techniques."
"This correspondence presents a theorem which allows the generation of many pseudonoise (PN) codes with known bounds on the crosscorrelation function by modulo-2 adding two maximal linear sequences (MLS) which have some given cross-correlation bounds. The application of this work can generate codes with lower predicted cross-correlation upper bounds (which is helpful in coherent correlation systems) than developed by Gold, and there is no restriction on the length of the PN register."
"This correspondence discusses a Lagrangian formulation of the dual-spin dynamics problem treated earlier by the author. It is shown that the present formulation also leads to an identical set of motion equations for the seven-degree-of-freedom dynamical system considered."
"The spacecraft nutation damping performance claimed as a result of the analysis in a recent paper by Sen is invalid because the system equations are incorrect. This correspondence points out some serious omissions in Sen's equations and presents the correct equations whose solution shows that Sen's stabilizer is actually destabilizing."
 "Presents abstracts of papers that were presented at this conference."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A method for detecting spikes in the EEG is described. A digital computer is used to perform a detailed analysis of abnormal spikes to obtain quantitative values for spike characteristics and to determine the parameter values to be used in a special-purpose spike detector. This detector is described together with application results."
"A model has been formulated for the thermal and biological response of tissue to the thermocoagulation method of stereotactic surgery. The model has been solved numerically for the temperature distribution in the tissue around an implanted cylindrical thermoseed as a function of time during and after induction heating. The tissue thermal damage has been quantified and lesion size has been predicted as a function of thermoseed operating parameters. The results provide the clinician with an approximate indication of the thermal insult and suggest that the region of coagulative necrosis becomes less sharply defined with increasing thermoseed temperature and heating time."
"A coherent optical data-processing system for identifying and counting blood cells has been developed. Optical Weiner-Kolmogorov (minimum mean-square error) linear filtering is employed to estimate the density per unit area of a given cell type present in a sample blood smear. The Weiner filter is designed to recognize the characteristics of an ensemble of cells of a type rather than specific individual cells. In this way the system is made insensitive to minor variations in shape, size, or orientation of the cells. A Poisson shot-noise model for blood cells as a spatial random process is employed to calculate the far-field scattering from the cells. Results of experiments in which the percentage of reticulated (immature) red cells present in a smear has been determined are presented. The identification and counting accuracies compare favorably with those obtained by laboratory technicians with a microscope. The potential time saving of instantaneous estimation for the entire smear is significant."
"The dynamic relation between changes in heart period and changes in the frequency of stimulation applied to the nerves involved in slowing the heart (vagus nerves) in chloralosed vagotomized cats pretreated with propranolol was investigated in ten cats using time-domain techniques. The strength of the stimuli was such that a sinus rhythm was always maintained. The typical response of heart period to step changes in the frequency of stimulation (range 4-50 Hz) was found to be an increase in heart period to a steady value preceded by an overshoot, and followed, after the stimulus was removed, by an undershoot (postvagal tachycardia). The observed response was accurately described by a dynamic model consisting of a third-order nonlinear system with time delay. The postvagal tachycardia was accounted for by including in the model a negative feedback loop; a portion of the overshoot was accounted for by the feedback loop and the remainder by including in the model a negative coefficient that varied as a negative exponential function of frequency. For small variations in the frequency of stimulation, it was shown in agreement with previous results, that the model could be approximated by a first-order system with time delay. In addition, it was found that provided a sinus rhythm was maintained, the steady-state value of heart period during vagal stimulation was neither a hyperbolic nor a logarithmic function of frequency of stimulation as suggested by previous investigators, but rather exhibited a maximum in the neighborhood of the middle of the frequency range studied."
"The relationship between the angle of joint position and a linear actuation position, together with appropriate torque relationships, is developed for rolling contact joints with offset insertion by first considering more simple situations. The position relationship can be made quasi-linear by a suitable choice of dimensions, a factor which may be of consequence in design studies of orthotic and prosthetic upper extremity devices and in the field of manipulators."
"The change in the electrical conductivity of blood observed in Couette and Poiseuille flow is discussed. Theoretical calculations considering the motion of red cells in Couette flow are presented. The red cells are considered as insulating ellipsoids in a conducting medium (plasma). The cell orientation distribution is used to calculate the change in conductivity with flow."
"The effect of the cell membrane on the scattering and absorption of light by a red blood cell is investigated theoretically using spherical models. It is shown that although the backscattering cross section varies considerably with cell membrane refractive index, cell membrane has very little to do with other scattering and absorption characteristics in general."
"Resonance absorption of microwaves by the human skull is examined by making computerized calculations of theoretical models of the skull. The calculated relative absorption versus frequency is plotted and compared for homogeneous and inhomogeneous skull models. At a frequency of maximum power absorption, the spatial distribution of intracranial field intensity (based upon the theoretical model) is also calculated and plotted."
"A practical method for analyzing the biological effects of nontherapeutic ultrasound was applied to the data of 21 different principal investigators. The data were compiled so that individual investigators could develop tentative guidelines of their own regarding the hazards of diagnostic ultrasound in human beings. One set of guidelines developed suggested that exposures of minimal hazard lie below a log/log line connecting 100 μs of 100 W/cm2 ultrasound with 200 s of 100 mW/cm2 ultrasound. An ultrasonic intensity of 100 mW/cm2 or less was of little or no hazard for at least 10 000 s. These guidelines applied to both continuous- and pulsed-wave ultrasound doses that were described by average intensity multiplied by total exposure time. The proposed schedule was valid for 0.5-15 MHz and for all anatomic sites except the eyes."
"A three-sphere model is used to investigate the effects of inhomogeneities introduced by the scalp and the skull on the apparent location and magnitude of a current dipole representing local activity in the brain. The magnitude of the dipole is found to decrease by a proportion of 40 percent, whereas the location of the dipole appears 35 percent more centric."
"It has previously been demonstrated that the median evoked response (MER) is appreciably less sensitive than the average evoked response (AER) to large artifactual disturbances [2]. It is shown here that for Gaussian noise, with artifactual noise absent, the confidence intervals of the median and average are comparable."
"An analog method for the calculation of dP/dt/P is described that in-corporates a means for internal calibration. Engineering tests of this device are reported as well as tests using pressures from the left ventricle of swine (20-25 Kgm). Interventions included inflation of a balloon in the inferior vena cava (peak pressure reduced by 50 percent), occlusion of the aorta (peak pressure increased by 100 percent), and pacing (from 150 to 210 beats/min). dP/dt/P (P denotes left-ventricular pressure) calculated from the analog device agreed within the noise level when compared with the calculation based on pressure alone using an A-D converter and digital computer."
"A low-current-drain low-noise amplifier suitable for long-life implanted transmitters is described. Frequency-response curves are given that show how to tailor the response. A voltage-controlled oscillator (VCO) suitable for connection to an RF transmitter is also described."
"A function generator is described that basically generates a trapezoidal waveform whose leading and trailing ramps and positive and negative plateaus can be varied in duration, independently, between 0.5 ms and 50 s. By appropriate interconnections between the constituent units of the generator, a total of 12 different waveforms are generated, including triangular, sinusoidal, square, rectangular, and sawtooth waveforms. The output may be either free running or externally triggered to produce an adjustable integral number of cycles."
"A single-transistor class B oscillator was designed as a gateable transmitter stage for ultrasonic tags. The transmitting efficiency was analyzed by grouping the various losses into two categories: collector circuit losses to determine the collector efficiency; and load circuit losses to determine the load efficiency. The collector efficiency, 58.5 percent for this design, is a function of the internal battery resistance, collector saturation resistance, operating power level, and battery voltage. The load efficiency, 37 percent for this design, includes losses from the transformer, base circuit, and projector. The conditions for maximum power transfer were delineated, and a simple procedure for obtaining an approximate measure of projector efficiency was prepared."
"A device is described for precise stimulation of the slowly adapting mechanoreceptors in the cat's footpads. At a preset delay following the arrival of an external triggering pulse, a selected weight in the range 50 gm-2 kgm is applied for a preset duration, then lifted pneumatically. A displacement transducer provides a voltage signal proportional to the displacement of the weight."
"A solid-state device utilizing TTL logic circuitry is described that produces a randomly timed series of pulses."
"The criteria used in the selection of a laminar airflow unit are presented. The unit acquired and installed is described. The air-velocity profiles are shown for the empty and occupied operating room, and the method for their determination is described. The study of the velocity profiles indicated the unit operated to the manufacturer's description and met the needs for a particular operating room."
"An application of the mathematical concept of curvature to the detection of distortion in arterial pressure signals is described. Curvature is defined and examples of digitally filtered pressure tracings show the relationship between curvature and the degree of damping. Even though curvature is also a function of the cardiovascular system producing the signal, the average sum of curvature can generally distinguish control signals from signals distorted by moderate amounts of blood or air in the catheter systems. Selected pressure signals with their associated sums of curvature show the properties and limitations of curvature for discriminating between the changes in the cardio-vascular system and distortion of pressure signals."
"A simple method for introducing mechanical damping in catheter-manometer systems so that a flat frequency response throughout 30 Hz can be realized easily is described. This allows reliable computation of instantaneous blood velocity by the pressure gradient technique, since the bandwidth available, dc to 22 Hz, allows accurate recording of the pressure gradient, even when long catheters are used. Similarly, the first time derivative of the intraventricular pressure pulse can be obtained without difficulty."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
  "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Electrical stimulation applied to the skin has been observed to relieve pain. Although transcutaneous nerve stimulation devices are quite simple, certain constraints must be met, particularly in electrode design, in order to maximize effectiveness."
"The Wiener theory of nonlinear system identification is extended to multi-input-output systems and experimentally applied. The experimental applicability of the method is discussed with regard to biological systems. It is shown that the method is well suited for the treatment of the idiosyncratic features of such systems: nonlinearities, short lifetimes of experimental preparations, and high noise content. A preliminary analysis is outlined, taking into account the characteristics of the system under study, which results in the determination of the parameters of the identifying experiment. An error analysis is made which can be used to increase the accuracy of the derived model within certain constraints. Several examples are given of the experimental application of the method to certain neural networks in a vertebrate retina (the catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, retina was used for these experiments). In addition to functional identification through white-noise stimulation, these same retinal neurons are identified morphologically through intracellular dye injection. The performance of the derived functional models, as compared to the physical system, is evaluated through a variety of tests and it is found to be very satisfactory."
"While biped locomotion involves very complicated dynamical processes, a good deal can be learned about stability and feedback control from an analysis of simplified mathematical models. This paper treats locomotion dynamics relative to planar motion under an assumption that leg mass can be ignored in comparison to body mass. Thus the hypothetical biped possesses one rotational degree of freedom and two translational degrees, leading to a sixth-order system of nonlinear differential equations. These equations are linearized and feedback control laws are then derived to produce the desired stable forward motion. The feedback laws proposed involve a combination of continuous and discrete concepts to produce both step length and step period control as well as control of body attitude and altitude. The applicability of the control laws to the nonlinear system in the presence of large disturbances is verified by computer simulation. Hopefully, the results presented are significant relative to control processes arising in lower extremity prostheses and orthoses as well as to the design of biped robots."
"Ultrasonic B-mode displays are produced by a new diagnostic scanner that yields dynamic Doppler information from blood flow in addition to both static and dynamic echo information from stationary and more slowly moving tissues. The effect is produced by combining the flow imaging capability of a multigate pulse-Doppler flow detector with a fast rotational pulse-echo B-mode scanner. The duplex system was designed for performing ultrasonic echo-Doppler arteriography where the location and geometry of the interface between occlusive atherosclerotic tissue and blood is of prime concern. Initial results on normal arteries in vivo are illustrated. Spatial alignment of echo and Doppler images is obtained by using the same transducer and scanning mechanism for both. However, clinical trials on patients with verified occlusive arterial disease indicated a two-transducer system would be more desirable. It is concluded that superposition of images of both tissue and blood decreases the uncertainties inherent in the display of either image alone."
"Frequency bands that best discriminate the Korotkov sounds at systole and at diastole from the sounds immediately preceding these events are defined. Korotkov sound data were recorded from five normotensive subjects during orthostatic stress [lower body. negative pressure (LBNP)] and bicycle ergometry. A spectral apalysis of the seven Korotkov sounds centered about the systolic and diastolic auscultatory events revealed that a maximum increase in amplitude at the systolic transition occurred in the 18-26-Hz band, while a maximum decrease in amplitude at the diastolic transition occurred in the 40-60-Hz band. These findings were remarkably consistent across subjects and test conditions. These passbands are included in the design specifications for an automatic blood pressure. measuring system used in conjunction with medical experiments during NASA's Skylab program."
"An electronic Korotkov sound processor has been developed for the automatic identification of the systolic and diastolic Korotkov sound transitions. This processor incorporates separate circuitry for systolic and diastolic decisions, each with its own defined preprocessing bandpass filter. The decision logic is designed to provide amplitude normalization both within and between subjects, and physiological testing was performed, to optimize the required critical-decision logic parameters. The accuracy of this processor design was evaluated using 32 normal subjects at rest and under orthostatic and ergometric stress conditions. The processor was shown to be quite accurate in its identification of the auscultatory systolic or diastolic event for passive subject conditions; processor accuracy was reduced for subjects participating in ergometric stress."
"An automative system for continuous maintainence of arterial pressure within set bounds by means of a bed programmed to tilt head up or down in response to fluctuations in arterial pressure has been designed. Pressure is measured continuously with an indwelling arterial pressure transducer. The system hastened return of blood pressure to normotensive levels in 15 dogs made hypertensive with metaraminol or hypotensive with trimethaphan camphorsulfonate."
"Since the discovery of an approximate 90-min oscillation in rapid eye movement (REM) or dream sleep, much interest has been expressed in the physiological and behavioral parameters associated with this phenomenon. One of the often stated theories is that this 90-min rhythm is an endogenous biorhythm present throughout the 24-h day, perhaps representing a rest-activity cycle of the nervous system. An approximate 90-min biorhythm in resting human heart rate is assessed and described using the techniques of periodogram analysis and complex demodulation. The techniques employed found evidence for this rhythm in all subjects; in-addition, the amplitude of the 90-min ultradian rhythm seemed to be modulated by a circadian (24-h) rhythm. However, the modulating circadian rhythm was not usually phase locked to the circadian rhythm fixed by the waking/sleeping cycle of each subject."
"A new induction flowmeter which can measure the blood flow from the skin surface is discussed theoretically and experimentally. A pair of electrodes placed on the skin detect the EMF induced by the interaction of the blood flow and a magnetic field applied from outside the skin. The relation between the EMF and the flow rate, which is obtained theoretically, is also confirmed experimentally within the error of 10 percent."
"Minimally invasive selective stimulation of biological tissue within the body can be achieved by implanting a small rectifying diode and then applying an RF field by means of electrodes or a coil on or near the surface of the body. A theoretical analysis of a simplified model consisting of a cylindrically symmetrical unit implanted in an isotropic homogeneous medium of conductivity σand permittivity ϵ and exposed to a uniform RF field relates the dc component of electrode current to the detailed geometry of the electrodes of the implanted unit and to the amplitude of the applied field."
"An operational amplifier circuit is presented that will provide a linear relation between output voltage and temperature from 10°C to 50°C using a nonlinear thermistor as the temperature transducer. The source of the linearity is discussed and a general method for determining circuit values is described."
"A study is presented of the standing waves created in the region between two parallel dielectric sheets when a plane electromagnetic wave propagates through the system in a direction normal to the dielectric boundaries. This model closely resembles the exposure of experimental animals, housed within restrainers of dielectric materials, to free-field microwave radiation. Data are presented giving the ratio of the standing waves set up for various sheet thicknesses and different dielectric materials, and it is demonstrated that significant changes in estimated power density levels are created by the restrainers."
"The authors are with the Applied Physiology Branch. Environmental Science Division. U.S. Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine, Brooks AFB, Tex. 78235. A nondestructive technique to continuously monitor diameter and blood flow at the same point along the descending thoracic aorta has been developed. A probe was passed down the esophagus to a level 1 to 2 cm distal to the aortic arch. On its distal end were Doppler-shift velocity-detecting and pulse-echo position- sensing crystals. The pulse-echo system was used not only to measure the diameter of the aorta, but also to aim all of the probe crystals directly across the axis of the aorta. Information supplied by this system aided in the identification of the aorta and helped to avoid measurement artifacts such as the inclusion of other arteries, veins, or moving structures."
"An acoustic picture of arteriosclerotic deposits in a femoral artery is shown."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The development of a method that allows the quantitative determination of the anisotropic electromechanical properties of bone as a function of the actual specific crystalline quality of the sample under consideration is reported. In order to provide means of standardization and interpretation of the variation of such properties, all measured values of the latter, from a given sample, are transformed into those corresponding to a reference standard sample with a well-defined idealized crystalline structure. The application of this method to the stiffness tensor, piezoelectric tensor, and dielectric tensor components is specifically treated in this paper."
"The widespread application of ultrasonic techniques for the measurement of pulsatile blood flow has been hampered by the lack of a detailed theoretical understanding of the Doppler ultrasonic flowmeter. A general model for the Doppler flowmeter based upon stochastic considerations of the scattering of ultrasound by blood is introduced in this paper. The model characterizes the back- scattered ultrasound as a Gaussian random process and the expression for the autocovariance function is derived. For the CW Doppler flowmeter, the power spectral density function is computed, and its significance is emphasized: measurement of blood flow velocity corresponds to estimation of the average frequency of the Doppler power spectrum."
"Electroencephalographic (EEG) data consisting of visual evoked responses monitored via an array of electrodes from humans and penicillin-induced focal epileptic discharge data recorded from rat neocortex are analyzed. This procedure, previously applied to seismic array data, offers a method by which high-resolution vector velocity and, thus, direction and speed of propagating wavefronts can be estimated."
"Methods to automatically determine the boundary of left heart chambers from X-ray films (cineangiocardiograms) by computer are discussed. Several authors have considered entering a first approximation to the boundary manually by light-pen, and then letting the computer determine the exact boundary from successive frames automatically. A method to do the first step automatically as well is proposed in this paper, utilizing ventricle motion and contrast medium flow. Experiments indicate that brightness as a function of time varies much stronger inside the area of the left heart chamber than outside, due to heart, contraction and contrast medium fluctuation. Hence, using a suitable criterion for motion, it is possible to extract an approximate outline of the left ventricle by simple operations. This outline is then used as initial information for the subsequent frame-by-frame detection of the precise boundary of the heart chamber."
"A new transverse tomographic apparatus is described that enables the tomogram to be related to the ideal image by a linear blurring operation. It is shown that digital and optical linear spatial filtering techniques may be employed to remove the blurring that is present in the tomographic image obtained with the new device. Experimental verification of both restoration methods is presented."
"In an attempt to evaluate the pressure distortion due to clinical catheter-manometer systems, it becomes necessary to establish their linearity. While others have either discussed or have sought to establish the existence of linearity by investigation, no classification in present clinical systems has been made. Available discussions of the effect of a catheter-manometer system transfer function on pressure pulses start with the assumption that the transfer function is linear. Without linearity tests of the systems employed and with some investigators' results implying nonlinearity, this assumption remains unjustified. The work presented here establishes a linearity classification for systems now in use. A system is considered linear if its transfer function coefficients can be shown to be independent of pressure and time in the applicable zone of pressure and frequency. The coefficients of mass and damping, found with the aid of Womersley's equations, satisfy this criterion. The catheter spring constant, a complex number, and the remaining coefficient then determine system linearity. Different classes of catheters having differing cross-sectional structures lead to linearity in one case but do not necessarily imply linearity in a second case. With this in mind, linearity is then individually established for different catheters. Additionally, the compressibility of the catheter's fluid, previously ignored, is shown to influence the catheter's spring constant in some cases. The adverse effects of air bubbles on system fidelity is often not considered in the clinical application."
"Much of the recent work evaluating the role of the carotid body chemoreceptors in the control of ventilation has involved the application of transient stimuli. The response of ventilation to a sustained step decrease in Po2 from 90 mm Hg to 32 mm Hg of blood perfusing the carotid bodies of dogs indicated an abrupt increase in ventilation to nearly the final steady-state levels. The similarity of this response to the classic linear second-order system response prompted the investigation of a mathematical model that could be used to simulate the ventilatory control loop. It has been determined that the response of the ventilatory system of the dog to step, ramp, pulse, and pulse train inputs of hypoxia can be simulated with good accuracy by a nonlinear closed-loop feedback system that contains linear second-order dynamics. The input to this system is proportional to the magnitude and the rate of change of Po2 at the carotid bodies."
"Deep-vein thrombosis due to stasis in the lower extremities commonly occurs in surgery or during prolonged periods of bed rest. A system to prevent stasis was developed and consists of a three-compartment pressure cuff, a pneumatic source, and an electronic controller. The cuff is designed to be placed on the lower extremities over the calf. Each section of the cuff is sequentially and intermittently compressed. The sequential action for this compression is developed by an electronic controller that regulates pressure, periodicity, and duration of compression. Results show that a pressure wave can be developed that squeezes and propels the blood anteriorly through the venous system, and when the pressure is released the venous system refills."
"In order to evaluate nuclear power sources for biomedical applications, a nuclear battery, Betacel, was used to power two telemetry transmitters designed with a very low power consumption. The transmitters were implanted in a dog to measure the voltage of the battery and the deep body temperature. Special care was given to the glass packaging to prevent possible damage from body fluids. The experiment ran continuously for a 6-month period before termination. At that time, the animal was sacrificed to examine the radiation damage of tissues in the vicinity of the transmitters as well as the effects on vital organs. No measurable abnormality was detected. The experiment suggests that the nuclear power source can be used to extend the working life of implanted medical instruments."
"A fraction collector using an ultrasonic method to volumetrically sample small quantities of liquid is described in detail. The machine is designed around the parameters of studying the enterohepatic circulation of bile in the intact animal but may be used in the study of other body fluids."
"An improved electronic system for synthesizing tomograms is described. All functions are controlled by a minicomputer. The addition of TV images is performed by a video storate tube. Resolution values of the individual components as well as of the total system are given."
"A method has been devised for recording low-frequency dc physiologic signals for extended periods. The signal is transformed to a pulse train that can be recorded on a portable ECG tape recorder. The reproducing circuit permits the construction of an analog signal proportional to the average of the original signal."
"Telephone telemetry is becoming increasingly more applicable to health care delivery. Technical characteristics and results of field testing of a new eight-channel constant-bandwidth (CBW) frequency-modulated data set are described in this communication. These tests have shown that eight channels of quality EEG can now be successfully transmitted simultaneously over one conventional telephone line. Economic considerations and other applications are discussed."
"An inexpensive compact calibration circuit providing linear ramps and dc levels suitable for calibration of microelectrode recordings is described."
"A simple technique is described for the generation of white noise having sufficient power below 10 Hz to be useful in biological experiments."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A miniaturized radio telemetry device has been developed which can monitor the magnitude and distribution of pressure generated between the cartilage-covered surface of the human hip socket and the surface of a hip prosthesis which replaces the spherical head of the femur in the hip. The pressure distribution is sensed by an array of 14 pressure transducers mounted inside the hollow ball of the prosthesis, and the signals from the transducers are transmitted to external receiving and recording equipment by a radio telemetry device also located inside the hollow ball."
"Ordinary respiration produces surprisingly large and highly variable changes in the electrocardiogram of many subjects, healthy as well as diseased. By responding voluntarily to a visual signal developed by special but simple electronic circuitry, or by a small computer, the subject can ``breathe with the lights'' and thus pace his breathing to an exact submultiple of his own heart rate without requiring forced breathing or constant respiratory rate. The flexible stationarity introduced by this technique allows two goals to be approached. One is the ``epitome'' electrocardiogram, a sequence of VCG-ECG patterns highly reproducible and highly characteristic of the individual as his heart responds to normal respiratory influences. The other is a set of indices characterizing quantitatively the physiological dynamics of the cardiorespiratory interaction in the individual. This pattern, expressed as respiratory heart-rate modulation index and pattern dynamics indices, may contain important medical indicators of autonomic and cardiovascular systems response status. The technology of producing these cardiorespiratory synchrograms (CRSG) is discussed with a brief outline of their medical and research utility."
"A novel micropower, two-channel telemetry system, which has been used to transmit the occurrence of the QRS complex of the heart waveform and temperature information, is described. The system employs pulsewidth-modulation (PWM) and pulse-position-modulation (PPM) methods plus a few unique circuits and system-design techniques so that it has the following desirable features. 1) The transmitting unit consumes extremely low power due to low duty cycle and yet delivers high peak power for better receiving. In addition, the unit is compensated (not regulated) for battery voltage variation. 2) By means of adaptive threshold, pulse-width-discrimination and pulse-rate-discrimination networks, the receiving unit is relatively noise free in signal identification. Information in analog and digital form are available at the output for convenience. A prototype system was designed and fabricated. Test results are presented. Due to the availability of the integrated circuits on the market, medical doctors and biologists will be able to duplicate the system if the system-size problem is not severe. Although the design was not trivial, the implementation is quite straightforward. Hence it is believed that device or integrated-circuit manufacturers would be able to implement it in a much more compact form."
"An analytical approach to obtain the relative heating pattern due to the propagation of ultrasonic waves in a fat-muscle-bone layered tissue system is presented. The effects on the relative heating pattern due to the change of incident angle and the change of frequency are discussed in this paper. The contribution to heating due to mode conversion at the bone surface is also discussed."
"A formulation for determining stroke volume from arterial pressure is presented which differs from previous methods in both scope of application and theoretical basis. The formulation is specifically applicable in the presence of large successive beat-to-beat variations which occur with premature contractions and other arrhythmias. Its derivation is based upon Windkessel theory, as are most others, but special emphasis is placed upon analysis of diastolic pressure (when arterial dynamics most nearly approach characteristics assumed in Windkessel theory). The formulation contains no ad hoc parameters although mean peripheral vascular resistance must be known and redetermined when changes in resistance occur. Results from eight animal experiments are presented which indicate that this formulation predicts stroke volume to about ten-percent (10-percent) error over successive beat-to-beat changes of severalfold during episodes of mechanically induced beats and during control, isoproterenol, and angiotensin administration."
"An ultrasonic interferometric technique of measuring blood flow with an extravascular probe is presented and analyzed. The difference in phase between pulses of ultrasonic energy transmitted simultaneously from a pair of barium titanate crystals diagonally through the vessel and received by the same pair of crystals is employed as the basic measurement of blood flow velocity. It is shown that the sensitivity is influenced mainly by variability in the internal diameter of the vessel and the zero-flow baseline voltage position is influenced principally by variations in the level of energy reflected from the vessel surfaces. Baseline stability is enhanced by the use of an asymmetrical probe which minimizes the variable reflection components. This measurement technique is currently being employed in long term telemetry implants in which flow measurements have been satisfactorily performed for periods in excess of three months duration."
"A general class of nonlinear electromyographic (EMG) processors has been evaluated for their signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) properties. These filters incorporate as the detector element either a power-law (xn) or root-law (x1/n) transformation (detector) followed by a linear low-pass smoothing filter. ``Linearized'' versions of these processors in which the smoothing filter is followed by an element with the inverse detector characteristics were also evaluated."
"The remote oculometer is a new instrument for the remote measurement of eye direction and pupil diameter. The electrooptical sensor unit is located several feet from the subject, who is free to move the eye being sensed throughout 1 ft3 of space. The video processing is performed in real time by a standard minicomputer. The oculometer processor (minicomputer) provides automatic calibration and linearization to each subject and can, supply the output eye-direction information in the form of either fixation-point coordinates on any specified fixation plane, azimuth and elevation, or direction cosines.The oculometer measures line-of-sight to an accuracy of 1° for eye rotation angles, relative to the sensor unit, of from 0° to + 30° elevation and from -30 ° to + 30 ° azimuth."
"Although microelectrodes have been in use for many years and there is a wealth of literature concerning their fabrication and application, there is little reported on waveform distortion produced by these electrodes. This paper reports experimental studies conducted to determine the effects of ac electrode polarization in microelectrode recording systems. Electrode materials are examined as well as other system factors such as the use of negative-input-capacitance (NIC) preamplifiers, stimulus isolation units (SIU), and electrode contact integrity."
"A method was hypothesized for separating total activity in large peripheral nerve bundles into components of activity at specific transmission speeds. The method is essentially an application of cross correlation. A test was conducted, using frog sciatic nerve, with positive results."
"A power supply energized by ultrasound has been developed and investigated. The supply can be used in medical applications where a high isolation from earth is essential, for example in the protection of a patient from the hazards of electric shock caused by medical instrumentation. The ultrasound energy is generated by a transmitting piezoelectric crystal (transducer) and sent to a receiving transducer via a glass rod 20 mm long. At the receiving transducer the acoustic energy is converted back to electric energy. The power transmission has been measured at different resonances of the glass rod-transducer combination. The radial mode resonance of the transducer seems to give the largest power transfer and the highest efficiency."
"The method reported represents an intraventricular ultrasonic technique and a model of the left ventricle from which its volume can be calculated. The geometrical model used is a paraboloid of revolution. A spherical steerable transducer is used to measure intraventricular dimensions. An auxiliary device to the ultrasonic generator, which has been developed in our laboratory, triggers the measurements from predefined points during the cardiac cycle and stores the measured dimensions. The device could generally be used for measurement of static volumes."
"A suite of conversational correlation and spectral computer programs for the analysis of electrical data from the human and canine digestive tracts is described. The data being analyzed comprise electrical signals obtained from either the inside or outside walls of the stomach and small and large bowels. The basic rhythm is a low-frequency wave of about 0.05 Hz in the stomach and 0.2 Hz in the duodenum of man, and about 0.1 Hz in the stomach and 0.3 Hz in the duodenum of dogs. The interactive analysis allows the accurate investigation of changes in phase shifts and frequency spectra caused by drug stimulation and different types of vagotomy."
"The way in which accommodation is modeled in the French and Stein (1970) electronic neural analog may cause it to behave differently from a real neuron during an `inhibitory potential. This has been overcome by incorporating half-wave rectification into that part of the circuit modeling accommodation."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Efforts to automate the estimation of left-ventricular volume from serial angiocardiograms have neglected the explicit location of the aortic valve line and the ventricle apex. From heuristic considerations of typical aorta-ventricle outlines, an algorithm has been developed to find these key points. The algorithm tracks the turning of the aorta-ventricle outline and uses this information to find the apex and to nominate points for ends of the aortic valve line. The correct valve points maximize an objective function defined on distance measures and the turn information. The algorithm represents a significant step in the direction of completely automated analysis of ventricular angiocardiograms."
"The glomerular neurons are small cells in the olfactory bulb which form numerous synaptic connections with each other and with the output neurons of the bulb, the mitral-tufted cells. They form in the mass two anatomical feedback loops, one within the population, the other between the populations of glomerular and mitral-tufted cells. The poststimulus time (PST) histograms of single glomerular neurons on afferent electrical stimulation are monotonic, always with initial increase in induced pulse probability at varying latency of onset, implying that interactions are mutually excitatory. A differential equation is developed to represent the dynamics of afferent temporal dispersion and positive feedback in a neural population. The solutions of the equation are used to generate curves fitted to the PST histograms. The required numerical values for the coefficients are similar to those found for other bulbar neurons, which implies that the particular properties of neurons in the population arise-from the topology of connections and not from the single neurons."
"Glomerular neurons were driven by single shock stimulation of the primary olfactory nerve (PON). The poststimulus time (PST) histograms showed a rapid increase in pulse probability to a crest, followed by an exponential decay to background level P0. The crest magnitude and decay rate both increased with increasing stimulus intensity. The decay rate was extrapolated to zero at threshold. This implies that loop gain is unity at and below threshold."
"We report about the results on positioning of the ankle joint of a hemiplegic patient and of normal experimental subjects, using functional electrical stimulation (FES) of antagonistic muscle groups and position feedback. Such a controller is intended to be used as the execution level of a multilevel orthotic system. The synthesis of the controller has been made with the aid of the components of an analog hybrid computer. Experimental results show that the static and dynamic properties of regulated movements are not essentially inferior to the properties of voluntary movements. There are stated technological problems that will have to be solved before the controller can be clinically applied for rehabilitation purposes. At the present state of the art, the poor technology of FES, the unsolved problem of fatigue with FES muscles, size, price, and bad cosmetic effect prevent the position controller from being clinically applicable."
"This paper considers the quantitative description of intracellular and extracellular fields of a single circular cylindrical fiber resulting from the propagation of an action potential (AP). Several formulations are noted, but one, which permits identification of free-space source-sink relationships, is examined in some detail; the physical models which it gives rise to are described and developed. Desirable approximations are considered and the conditions of their validity are discussed. A convolution integral formulation to field patterns (from their sources) is presented. Axially symmetric anisotropic media are also considered."
"The fact that all practical QRS loops in vectorcardiograms are not geometrically well defined renders the analytical studies of QRS waveforms in electrocardiograms difficult. However, many important properties of practical loops can be revealed by and understood through the use of idealized loops which can be easily and analytically treated. By means of a uniformly inscribed circular QRS loop, one can arrive at an amplitude-modulation model for the QRS complexes of electrocardiographic leads. The possibilities of having the constituent parts of a QRS complex identified as the envelope-carrier pair or the carrier-sideband pair of an ordinary amplitude-modulated wave are revealed in this paper. This collective behavior of QRS may open up a way for the envelopes to be employed as diagnostic criteria."
"The dynamics of cell cycle and proliferating kinetics are characterized by the state equations, which are linear difference matrix equations with their state vectors consisting of variables representing cells in a particular compartment for cell-age, cell-size, and cell-DNA content. The transformation required from the cell-age distribution to the cell-size and DNA distributions in this discrete-time model under various assumptions is derived. The asymptotic behavior (as the time approaches infinity) of the cell age, cell size, and cell DNA is studied. The time course of the cell-size distribution of labeled cells under flash labeling is investigated by computer simulation and favorably evaluated with the experimental results obtained for spontaneous AKR leukemia-cell population."
"A semiautomatic system has been developed to evaluate temporal and binaural aspects of the porpoise sonar receiving system at the level of the midbrain. Surgical and electronic techniques are combined to test this fast acting system and permit replication by digital computer. Pulsed-sound projectors were used to binaurally simulate porpoise sonar clicks underwater, in an azimuth about their heads. Precise control of interaural time differences and repetition rates of the projectors was by an oven-regulated crystal time delay generator. Pulse amplitudes were independently determined by dc sources, whose voltages were delivered through silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR's)."
"A variety of methods have been proposed for determining cardiac output from the shape of the central pulse pressure contour. Each of these methods uses a calibrated constant of proportionality to relate the stroke volume to the specific function of the pulse pressure contour."
"The ready availability and high speeds of small digital processors (minicomputers) has made possible fast translation to and from discrete time and frequency domains through the fast Fourier transform (FFT). Formerly time-consuming operations on sequences can now be performed more efficiently and easily in the discrete frequency domain."
"Circuit details and operational instructions for a precision electronic reset integrator are presented. The unit is compatible with commercial flow measuring equipment. The maximum output signal is 12 V, and the drift is less than 10 mV/s. A built-in calibrator facilitates the setup of recording instruments, and the design is expandable for up to ten channels."
"In the above communication, Merry, Hale, and Zervas proposed two eddy-current models of seed implant heating. Their theoretical calculations and experimental observations showed the observed heating falls somewhere between the two models discussed. I wish to note some corrections to the theoretical results which will clearly delineate the applicability of the skin effect model and the inadequacies of the total penetration model."
"The above paper is reinterpreted and some of its conclusions thereby called into question."
"Dynamic as well as static temperature measurements are now possible in biological tissue using thin-film Cu-Ni microthermocouples. These probes which use a quartz substrate exhibit response times of less than a millisecond with thermal properties similar to tissue. Their thermoelectric EMF of 21 , μm V/°C is linearly dependent on temperature over the range normally encountered in biological measurements. Probe-tip diameters as small as 10 μm are being fabricated."
"A method to compute the system function of gamma-ray multichannel collimators having a point spread which is periodic in the angle when expressed in polar coordinates is described. This is the case when the cross section of the channel distribution is hexagonal, for example. The computation is done in terms of sample of the responses to a finite number of lines."
"Surface temperature measurement alone is insufficient to establish the hazard to the human of contact with a hot or cold object. A metal surface is more likely to cause thermal injury than a plastic surface at the same temperature. An instrument equipped with a measuring probe has been developed for indicating the temperature that would be experienced if human contact were made with the hot surface in question. The correct value of interface contact temperature can be read for a selected contact time without knowing the composition or temperature of the heated material under test."
"A displacement monitor for use with mechanical stimulators with range of 2.5 mm, ±5-percent linearity, l-μm resolution, and less than 25-μs rise time can be built inexpensively using a solid-state interrupter module. Operational amplifier circuits are given for loudspeaker driver and monitor electronics."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The exchange of materials in biologic tissues can be quantitatively described by transport rate constants (k's). One way to determine these k's is from studies of tissue fragments with the aid of an isotope as tracer and digital computer simulation. Usual methods of solution require that the material of interest, tracee, remain at steady state during the in vitro outflow recording period. When Na kinetics is studied in liver fragments, it is found that this tissue keeps absorbing Na tracee from the in vitro medium, thus departing from in vivo and yielding a nonsteady state."
"This paper addresses the problem of computing the total lung capacity (TLC) without operator intervention by means of the picture analysis of the anterior and lateral X-ray images. Barnhard's ellipse method was employed which requires as parameters such features as the top of the diaphragm in both views, and the width of the heart in the lateral view."
"The response to extracellular simulation of a cell having a non-uniform membrane consisting of a low resistance patch in an otherwise high resistance membrane is examined. The presence of the patch is shown to cause a shift in the isopotential value of the intracellular medium towards the value of potential just outside the patch. The quantitative dependence of this shift upon the electrical parameters of the system is examined; the effect of such a shift upon the distribution of induced transmembrane potentials is discussed; and the case of a cell with multiple low resistance patches is treated."
"This study investigates the feasibility of utilizing multiple dipole cardiac generators with time dependent dipole moments to obtain physiologically feasible inverse electrocardiographic solutions."
"The problem of filtering artifact from QRST complexes of ECG records has been approached by the use of a digital, time-varying filter. The optimum form of this filter assuming uncorrelated, zero-mean, additive noise is presented and shown to be equivalent to estimating the coefficients of an intrinsic component expansion of the complex. Results are reported showing that QRST complexes in limb leads of normals may be accurately represented by only eight terms of the intrinsic component expansion. A suboptimum filter is presented and results reported which show that an order of magnitude reduction of the 0.05 to 100 Hz artifact energy in the filtered complex can be achieved."
"Apparent similarities between brain waves and physical waves are considered. The distribution of power in the alpha rhythm over frequency and spatial wavelength is measured in several subjects. This is accomplished by means of spatial-temporal Fourier analyses of scalp surface potentials using multichannel recordings from electrodes placed along the midline. It is found that the spectrum of midline alpha oscillations peaks for long wavelengths (≃20 cm). A dispersion relation relating frequency to spatial wavelength apparently exists for frequencies near the peak alpha frequency. That is, in all 13 records, frequency components just above the peak alpha frequency have shorter midline wavelengths than low alpha frequency components. The relationship of these results to theoretical descriptions of the EEG and to other experiments is discussed."
"Preparation of bevelled dual-channel glass microelectrodes is described. The bevelled tips overcome some of the problems which complicate intracellular recording. The size of the tip opening is increased, resulting in a lower resistance, which in turn confers greater current-carrying capacity and less noise susceptibility. Bevelling also preserves the sharp point, facilitating tissue penetration and minimizing neuronal trauma. The characteristics of bevelled and unbevelled electrodes filled with 0.5 or 3 M KCI, K Acetate and K2SO4 were similar. Bevelled electrodes were shown to maintain a near constant resistance during current passage, while unbevelled ones showed changes in resistance that were dependent on current magnitude, polarity and duration. Such changes were caused principally by electro-osmosis."
"An integrated liquid-oxide-semiconductor FET structure is described. The structure is similar to a conventional n-channel depletion mode MOSFET except the gate metal is omitted. Immersing the device in a saline solution, the drain current is controlled by the potential between the source and the solution. Operated as an active recording electrode, the structure has several properties useful in neurological research."
"Electrolysis measurements have been made on electrodes of platinum, stainless steel, tungsten, iridium, palladium, rhodium, rhenium, gold, tantalum, titanium, zirconium, and some conducting oxides of the tungsten bronze family. Electrodes were immersed in physiologic saline solution and subjected to biphasic rectangular current pulses of various current densities at 50 pps, 24 hours per day for periods up to nine months. Weight loss was recorded at intervals during this time. We conclude that iridium,rhodium, platinum and palladium are extremely resistant to electrolysis under these conditions and electrolysis under 5μ thick, made of such materials should have lifetimes on the order of decades. Gold is somewhat poorer but probably acceptable; all the other materials tested, including tungsten and stainless steel, are unacceptable as chronic microelectrode materials."
"Modeling the human skull as a homogeneous sphere, a method is presented whereby the unknown conductivity and dielectric constant associated with the sphere can be determined through measurements of the Stokes polarization parameters of the angularly scattered radiation, when the sphere is irradiated by an electromagnetic plane wave. The wavelength of the incident field is on the order of the diameter of the sphere so that the Mie description of the scattered field is employed. The technique requires the minimization of the square of the differences between the measurement and its theoretically computed counterpart. A simple systematic variation in the unknown parameters (complex refractive index) is utilized for the minimization process. Numerical illustrations of the method are presented for computer simulated measurements."
"Lead vector theory of electrocardiography is used to estimate cardiac current density thresholds for ventricular fibrillation from reported data for current thresholds at the skin. The estimated value, which is of the order of 300μA/cm2 is consistent with results obtained by others with 60 Hz currents injected directly into the heart."
"The widely used bio-heat transfer equation is examined regarding its term describing the thermal effects of blood perfusion. It is demonstrated, both by physical arguments and numerical results, that the description of thermal convection by blood is inconsistent in this equation, and that results are in error by the same order of magnitude as the convective energy transport itself."
"An on-line real-time program for measurement of airway closing volume has been developed, using the Lab-8/e (PDP-8/e) computer. The paper describes the procedure for measurement of airway closing volume and the program which was developed. The program in addition to measuring airway closing volume also measures the alveolar plateau volume, and the slopes of the alveolar plateau and the closing volume excursion. The program operates in conjunction with the Digital Equipment Corporation Pulmonary Test System."
"The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency content of intravascular pressures and their time derivatives. Pressures, recorded using catheter-tip manometers in patients undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization, were amplified, filtered (100 Hz) to minimize aliasing errors, and then converted to digital format at 200 samples/sec. After examination of the waveform to exclude obvious artefact, it was analyzed using a Fourier transform and then resynthesized using a decreasing number of harmonics. Peak dp/dt of both the original and resynthesized waveforms was computed until marked differences were observed."
"A sensory system with two neurons can unambiguously code all two-parameter stimuli, even though the ``best value'' of one parameter is the same for both neurons."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
  "Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper presents a survey of active microwave semiconductor devices with emphasis on devices made from Gallium Arsenide which is presently the material with the greatest scope and promise. Thanks to the three properties of high mobility, low threshold field and the existence of semi-insulating substrate GaAs is now preferably used as the starting material for avalanche (IMPATT) diodes, transferred electron (Gunn) diodes and field effect transistors. The GaAs IMPATT diode is presently the hottest performer in the frequency range up to X-band, whereas at higher frequencies the double-drift Si IMPATT diode still has the honor of maximum power and efficiency. Although exhibiting lower power and efficiency the Gunn diode has certain advantages such as low noise, low bias voltage, needs less critical tuning and bias circuitry and has a simpler structure. During recent years the GaAs field effect transistor has been developed to the fastest three terminal semiconductor device with outstanding noise performance. The paper outlines the basic device physics, terminal characteristics and reports the newest results."
"Industrial microwave applications are rapidly increasing. Their potential in certain areas, the food, rubber and textile industries arises from a combination of advantages: efficient energy conversion, automation and product quality control. Many other heating and drying applications are under consideration today; these include pharmaceutical drying, film drying, and veneer processing. Second and third generation equipment is now in successful use in industry, where applications range from macaroni drying and oyster processing to the rapid heating of institutional lunches; microwave proofing of bread products, for example, has been shown to require as little as one fifth of the energy needed with conventional heating methods. This paper discusses the design and operation of industrial microwave systems and presents some information on evaluating the relative merits of the method from the point of view of the user."
"The current status of several classes of acoustic surface wave components are examined with a particular view to assessing their probable impact on microwave systems design."
"Frequency agile magnetrons are important in radar systems employing transmitter frequency agility to provide improvement in glint, fading and clutter. Electronic tuning is preferred for reasons of speed and reliability, and as such, it has high potential for such applications. Electronic tuning using ferrite-loaded cavities is the best method compared to others, specially at X-band frequencies. Tests were made on high power magnetrons, type 7008, to determine such capabilities. A rectangular waveguide cavity containing suitably located ferrite strips, was coupled through a matching section to one of the resonators of the magnetron. By varying a properly oriented biasing magnetic field, Ha, from 0 to 2000 oersteds, a frequency agility band, ΔF, of 65 to 55 MHz was obtained in the mechanically tunable band of 8.5 to 9.3 GHz, while the magnetron was operating within the specified limits. This agility band is atleast double of what can be obtained by other electronic methods."
 "A 2mm wave generator that uses a helical electron beam spiralling around the axis of a nearly square waveguide cavity is described. The beam interacts with the TE11n mode in the cavity and the frequency of gyration around the axis is closely equal to half the signal frequency, thus halving the longitudinal magnetic field required by comparison with cyclotron devices of identical frequency. Power outputs in excess of 100mW have been achieved with low current, high voltage beams, with the promise of more power being available. A broadband microwave window developed for the tube is also described."
"We have successfully observed the millimetre wave oscillation in the Ledatron due to the TEM02 field distribution of the Fabry-Perot mode, which had been predicted by our theory of operation. Through operation of this mode, we can reduce an electron accelerating voltage about 10 percent to obtain the same oscillating frequency without any change of grating structures. The increase of the start-oscillation current is small when proper configuration of the resonator is chosen. The resonant characteristic of the grating has been examined experimentally and theoretically. The experimental results are in good agreement with our theory. The condition of the grating structure to give wide tuning range of the Fabry-Perot mode has been obtained by the theory. So far an output power of around 300 milliwatts has been obtained at 300-GHz band."
"The paper describes the first phase of the development of a satellite TWT with an output power of P2 = 700 W. Design considerations for more than 7 years life are presented. The concept of the tube with coupled cavity, self-radiating 5 stage collector and SmC05 - magnets will be described. The first step before tapering the delay line was to optimise a uniform delay line. Remarkable results were obtained with a uniform delay line and single collector depression. a) Efficiency 39 % at 2,5 °/dB am-pm conversion b) Efficiency 32 % at 0 °/dB am-pm conversion and ± 3° phaseshift only by changing the input power from zero to full saturated drive. These results are in much better agreement with the results of theoretical computations as the measured characteristics of helix TWT so far."
"As part of a 700 W CW transponder for a direct TV broadcasting satellite operating in the 11.7 to 12.5 GHz band, a traveling-wave tube (TWT) and directly radiating multistage collector are being developed. The state-of-the-art TWT is periodic permanent magnet (PPM) focused and incorporates a novel type of coupled cavity slow wave structure comprising three gain sections with a velocity taper in the final section for efficiency improvement. The five-stage depressed collector for further efficiency improvement is made of carbon and radiates directly into space."
"The fundamentals of the time domain reflectometry (TOR) are reinvestigated and the measuring method is extended to time domain transmission (TOT). It is shown, that for immittance measurements high resolution can be achieved by either decreasing the risetime or increasing the amplitude of the ramp test pulse. The effect of fixed reactances can often be neglected. It is easy to measure time constants of networks ≥ 0,1 ps. If the integral of the pulse response is taken into account. the measurements are independent of the pulse shape. For a quick evaluation of TDR- and TDT-oscillograms, groups of networks with equal network function can be listed in a normalized form. Results are shown for miniature components as well as microstrip parasitics."
"This paper describes the new microwave bridge system with dielectric antennas of very small transverse dimensions (smaller than 10 mm) convenient for measurements of the complex permittivity of slab materials. This system enables (i) to measure by nondestructive way the complex permittivity of dielectric and semiconducting samples the dimensions of which are comparable or smaller than the wavelength of probing microwaves, (ii) to detect the material inhomogeneities. This system was verified at the frequency 37,5 GHz. Measurements of the specific resistivity of the Si samples are given. Obtained results are in good agreement with the theory."
"A method has been developed for a precise non-destructive measurement of the dielectric constant and losses of slab-like samples, such as microstrip substrates for instance. The test setup basically consists of an open-ended rectangular waveguide whose flange is placed in contact with one side of the dielectric material, the other one being backed by a metal plate. The measured amplitude and phase of the reflection coefficient with respect to a short-circuit in the aperture plane are related to the real and imaginary parts of the permittivity by means of computer generated charts."
"In conventional microwave automatic measurements of the amplifier noise figure the measurement results are distorted by an error which is due to the noise of the receiver itself which is connected in cascade with the amplifier under test. This error depends on the receiver noise and on the gain of the amplifier. In the paper there is presented a method which eliminates this error and a set-up is described which proves in practice the advantages of the method worked out. In the method - besides of the two measurement states in which the noise generator is \"on\" and \"off\" - there is included a third state in which the receiver own noise level is measured. This is enable due to an electronically controlled microwave p-i-n diode switch which -on the other side- does not affect the overall set-up accuracy."
"This paper presents a method of reducing the r.f.-d.c. substitution error in calorimeter-type waveguide power meters by the use of two thermometers. A calorimeter for the frequency range 60 - 90 GHz based on this principle is described."
  "The microwave performance of GaAs FET's is reviewed and examples of their application in systems operating up to X-band frequencies discussed. Examples of amplifiers (one giving 42 dB gain at 11.2 GHz) and oscillators operating at frequencies hitherto unattainable by 2-port solid state devices are used to illustrate the performance and potential of GaAs FET's in microwave systems."
"The development of a 12 GHz Field-Effect Transistor (FET) Amplifier for use in a communications technology satellite is described. The principal features of Fairchild FMT 941 and Plessey GAT 3 FETs are compared and the performance of these devices in single and two-stage amplifiers is discussed. The design and performance of a five-stage prototype amplifier employing Fairchild devices are also discussed. Results for a similar amplifier employing Plessey devices are presented orally."
"Avalanche diode amplifiers (ADAs) with power outputs of 0.5 - 2.0 Watts have been developed for communication systems. Circuit design technique for these ADAs and their performance characteristics in high-capacity microwave communication systems are described. In addition, recent experimental results on high power (5 - 10 Watts) amplifiers using Readprofile IMPATT diodes are presented."
"The design of microwave amplifiers by systems manufacturers is limited in gain, power output, and especially bandwidth by the parasitic reactances of the transistor packages used in the fabrication of discrete devices. These limitations become more critical as the frequency is increased, due to the proportionate change in reactance for a fixed value of inductance and capacitance. In order to avoid this parasitic degradation, the transistor manufacturer should supply transistors which have at least partial transformation networks incorporated within the package. This enables the systems house to then obtain the required bandwidth and performance with a minimum effort in both assembly techniques and circuit design."
"A solid state X-band amplifier consisting of five cascaded stages is described. The amplifier is of hybrid type, where combination of high power silicon IMPATT amplifier modules with a Gunn diode pre-amplifier stage provides an output power of greater than 13. Owatts. The gain of the amplifier is 26-dB, with an instantaneous bandwidth of 100MHz. Descriptions of single diode and multiple-diode amplifier cavities are given. Measured performance is given on similar single and multiple-diode amplifier stages. Data included is, input and output power characteristics, AM to PM conversion, noise and temperature. No spurious oscillators were observed in any of the stages of the amplifier."
"A method of producing high power amplification by combining a number of moderate power Impatt reflection amplifiers is proposed and initial experimental results are reported. Power combination is to be effected by means of a new power combiner, the \"Shybrid\", which has particular merits making it well suited for this application. The design and performance of single \"Shybrids\" and \"Shybrid\" arrays are presented. The amplifier modules employ unpackaged diodes capable of producing ½ to ¾ W c.w. and prototype modules have already demonstrated the target performance of 6 dB gain over a 1 GHz bandwidth at X-band. The proposed construction for the complete assemblies will be described."
"A new method is presented which employs a theory to calculate the dimensions of TM0l0 cavities for the heat treatment of cylindrical samples of known dielectric properties. The design of such cavities to treat a column of distilled water is described in detail. Utilisation efficiencies and the average electric field strength developed in the water in the 2.45 GHz cavity are obtained from calorimetric measurements."
"A general computer model has been developed to investigate the dynamic behaviour of microwave drying and heating of sheet and filamentary materials. It accommodates a variety of waveguide applicator configurations. The input information is the physical properties of the material. The output is temperature and moisture content profiles, instantaneous and average absorbed powers, and efficiency. Experimental measurements carried out on the heating of some materials in sheet and filamentary forms seem to correlate with the computations."
"So far, the usual means of measuring the glass content in glass-fibre reinforced plastics has involved destruction of the material. A new method developed at ELAB allows such measurements to be made non-destructively by means of microwaves. The method is based upon the difference in permittivity between the glass and the plastic material. The resonance frequency of a measuring coaxial probe is influenced by the permittivity of the composite material, and by use of probes with differences in field penetration into the material information of the fibre distribution can be acquired."
"A microwave method for the measurement of fiber orientation in paper, is described. The method uses a dual mode microwave cavity where the modes have equal resonant frequencies and mutually perpendicular electric fields. The paper is inserted through the cavity so that the electric fields of both modes are in the plane of the paper. If the orientation of the fibers in the paper is not random the resonant frequencies will differ due to the dielectric anisotropy of the paper. This difference is measured and can be calibrated to give the amount of fiber orientation. Moisture and thickness variations in paper can cause calibration errors. However, if the variations are within certain limits, these errors can be eliminated by a suitable selection of the resonator bandwidths."
"A regenerative digital transducer (RDT) with an active linear response is described. The RDT can be operated in a contact or non-contact mode for moisture measurements in dielectric webs and in liquids or oils flowing inside dielectric pipes. The design is adapted for industrial measurements and on-line control purposes."
"This paper describes a novel and low-cost scheme for automotive precollision sensing called BARBI, an acronym for BAseband Radar Bag Initiator. The proposed technique involves the transmission and reception of a sub-nanosecond baseband or video impulse-like signal (i.e., no rf carrier) and requires virtually no microwave components. The very fast signal risetime permits leading edge resolution on approaching vehicles of much less than a foot; closing velocity is obtained by using range-rate techniques. By incorporating sequential range gating techniques, the false alarm rate can be reduced to one in ten years or less for all the cars in the U. S. today."
   "Double-drift silicon IMPATTs for high power pulsed and CW applications have been optimized by the proper design of the width and impurity concentration in both the N and P-layers. Peak pulse powers greater than 18 watts at a 25% duty cycle were obtained at 10 GHz with the junction temperature rise limited to 200°C. For similar temperature rises CW powers of 3.4 watts at 11.5 GHz and 4.2 watts at 8.5 GHz were achieved. Conversion efficiencies were between 10.5 and 13.7%. Some detailed measurements of the large-signal conductance and FM noise of the CW devices are presented."
"A new concept for integrated planar Schottky-diodes has been developed. It meets the two important requirements in the design of microwave diodes: high cutoff frequency and low parasitics. Only one epitaxial layer is needed. The Schottky contact is deposited on the slope of a mesa in order to obtain both low series resistance and low capacitance. Up to now a zero bias cutoff frequency of 150 GHz has been achieved. The advantage of this type of diodes as compared to planar diodes produced by double selective epitaxy is the use of standard technology, resulting in good reproducibility and yield."
"Two punch through injection structures are proposed, the first one for low voltage oscillation, the second one for low noise amplification to achieve the first objective N+ P II N+ structures have been realized which gave interesting results. The second objective has been achieved with a P+ N- N P+ structure which can give a theoretical minimum noise figure of about 5 db. Because of technological difficulties this structure has not been realized yet."
"The predicted small signal noise measure and impedance of pnnp Baritt diodes is described for three values of n region doping density, Nd, at frequencies up to 20GHz. It is shown that for suitable values of Nd, small signal noise measures of order 10dB or less can be maintained up to 20GHz, and small signal negative resistances of at least 1 ohm. A large signal diode simulation is used in conjunction with a simple design approach, to predict the output power of pnnp oscillators at 15GHz. Assuming a diode series loss of 0.3 ohm, an output power of 17 mW is predicted for a diode with Nd = 1016cm-3."
"The small-signal impedance of diffused junction BARITTs is obtained by an analytical expression, which depends on the dc differential resistance measured at each bias current directly on the silicon wafer. The impedances computed according to the above procedure are in agreement with published experiments and with microwave measurements carried out by an automatic network analyzer on p+-n-p+ diodes fabricated by us. The method is a fast and reliable test to further process or reject diffused BARITT wafers."
"The design of microwave oscillators using solid-state, negative-resistance devices is considered from the point of view of the general criterion for a steady-state free-running oscillator circuit. The intersection of the circuit admittance locus with the large-signal \"device plane\" - the conductance and susceptance as a function of frequency and r.f. amptitude - fully defines the operating point. A new technique for the measurement of the device admittance under oscillation conditions and the results of such a measurement for a BARITT diode will be presented. The use of the \"device plane\" in designing an oscillator for a given frequency and amplitude of oscillation with best stability and noise performance will be discussed."
"Proper design of reliable millimeter-wave communications links that operate on paths through the atmosphere requires an understanding of atmospheric transmission losses, especially losses due to rainfall attenuation. This paper combines information on transmission properties of millimeter waves with meteorological data to derive a methodology useful to the design engineer. Emphasis is on high-reliability communications in which outages are 0.1 percent or less."
"Amplitude scintillations in millimetric radio propagation are not usually considered by systems engineers In this paper, the experimental measurements of these scintillations in a 36 GHz radio link have been fitted into a model suitable for the millimetric range. From it, the amplitude scintillations can be regarded as a noise component superimposed on the mean value, with some expected mean rate fading fo. The r.m.s. value of this noise is then used to determine the outages for the scintillation-type fading, as a function of the frequency and link distance. The implications of the results in the power budget are discussed and reference is made to the limiting performance of digital transmission."
"The power transfer efficiency(ratio of received to transmitted power) between two elliptical antennas in the Fresnel zone is investigated experimentally. The design procedure for an optimum power transfer system is analyzed. Pyramidal horns in the foci of the ellipsoids enable an optimum phase illumination. Deviations from a Gaussian amplitude illumination (which is close to the optimum) cause a significant decrease of the efficiency, which however is still larger than it would be for a guided or a free path transmission in the far-field of two antennas."
"A 2 Km long horizontal link, at 12 GHz, is set up to provide measurements of depolarization. CW signal is sequentially (each 1msec) transmitted in vertical, horizontal and canted (45°) polarization. Synchroneous detection allows to determine co- and crosspolar fields, in amplitude and phase, in \"cartesian\" form. Fields are expressed in terms of STOKES parameters and covariance matrix. Numerical recording on magnetic tape allows to analyse depolarization up to a fluctuation frequency of 167 hz. Vizualisation on scope and correction of crosspolarization are also treated."
"For future communications, measurements are carried out to predict the effect of the earth's atmosphere on microwave propagation above 10 GHz. In the case of satellite links, radiometers are used for their reliability and low cost to monitor the antenna noise temperature. This method is limited by the poor accuracy of the computed atmospheric losses from the measured antenna noise power. A complete error analysis taking into account atmospheric and instrumental parameters is performed."
"Measurements of attenuation at 230 GHz through the total atmosphere due to the presence of oxygen and water vapour molecules, clouds and rain are presented and discussed. The measurements were carried out using a specially designed superhetrodyne receiver mounted on a sun tracker. Simultaneous measurements were also carried out at 13 GHz. For a measuring site close to sea level the \"clear-sky\" zenith attenuation was found to be given by A(dB)=0.35+0.95W, where W is the precipitable water in cms. When the ground temperature was below about 7°C most cloud and overcast gave ⩽ 0.5 dB attenuation whereas with a ground temperature greater than 13°C cloud attenuation was 8 to 10 times greater."
"Indium Phosphide TEO's giving up to ¼ Watt C.W. power at 28.5 GHz with an efficiency of 3% have been prepared by an Integral Heat Sink technique. Efficiencies of 5.5% pulsed at 32.5 GHz and 2% C. W. at 50 GHz have also been observed. The device and circuit design are discussed with reference to the attainment of high frequency operation (> 40 GHz) aimed at powers in excess of 100 mw with a useful tuning range. Indications of low noise performance suggest a possible application as parametric amplifier pumps."
"The noise measures of both GaAs and InP transferred electron amplifiers are initially calculated analytically for the case of uniform electric field and free carrier concentration and are shown to have minimum values for nol products of about 1011 cm-2. Noise measures for devices having realistic doping profiles are then computed by simulation and compared with the values predicted by the simple method. The best values of noise measure appear to be 7dB for GaAs and 4.5dB for InP when both diffusion and shot noise are taken into account."
"The GMR technique has been used to evaluate contact properties in completed InP transferred electron devices. Devices made on the same layer but with different contacts, Sn dot, Ag/Sn and Ag, have respectively displayed more enhanced Schottky barrier behaviour in their I-V characteristics and in GMR measurements as a function of bias, μ(V). At room temperature a model involving a low height barrier, series resistance and a resistance in parallel with the barrier has been fitted to the measured I-V of an Ag/Sn contact device and the results used to correct the asymmetrical μ(V) to give the bulk mobility variation."
"Bistable switching with current drops of 40% and switching times of 100 ps are obtained in pulsed operation of 10μm supercritically doped n+ nn+ GaAs Transferred Electron Devices (TEDs). When CW-operated the same devices exhibit a 5-17 GHz bandwidth for the stable negative resistance."
 "This paper discusses the use of negative resistance Gunn and IMPATT diodes in amplifier circuits. The operation of these diodes, their characteristics, design of circuits using them, and performance of these circuits is presented. The performance characteristics of these amplifiers pertinent to their use in frequency and phase modulated communications systems is discussed. Topics of discussion include: power output, gain, bandwidth, noise, phase linearity, AM to PM conversion, and intermodulation products."
"Very high peak power levels at microwave frequencies can be generated from several semiconductor devices (Gunn diodes, L.S.A. mode devices, TRAPATT's etc.) but some of these devices are only little removed from laboratory devices, and are limited in frequency. The Gunn device is the most practical and proven device but at 16 GHz is only capable of powers of around 10 watts peak. A simple technique is described which results in the addition of the powers and does not degrade the other parameters, such as R.F. rise time."
"The research results of the experimental phased array transmitting antenna (ELAN 25) are discussed. The main point of view besides the radar-technical one has been the search for a more economic system configuration. To install a minimum of RF-power and to relax the specifications of the components by using a self-correcting system are the most promising steps towards efficiency improvement."
"The reduction of mutual coupling effects is one interesting advantage of thinned antennas for phased array systems. This paper deals with the reflection coefficients and the antenna gain both as functions of the degree of thinning in statistically highly-thinned arrays. Appropriate statistics are derived, discussed, and experimentally tested. In the resulting probability distributions the variance is approximately proportional to the degree of thinning ∝ and nearly independent of the scan direction. For example, if a ∝=0.1 the total reflected power is always less than 10% of the input power and the maximum deviation of the antenna gain function, normalized to the number of radiating elements, from the gain function of an isolated element amounts to 1 dB only."
"A severe constraint on the use of electronically scanned active phased arrays is the high cost per element. This paper describes a method of r.f. phase interpolation locking applicable to transmit arrays where each element would normally have its own r.f. source and phase shifter. In a linear array, the technique requires phase shifters for alternate elements only, so the number of phase shifters is halved as is the locking power required. Furthermore, if n-bit phase shifters are used, the system performance approximates to that obtainable conventionally with (n+1)-bit phase shifters. Both theory of the method and experimental results for a 5-element X-band waveguide array are discussed."
"The incorporation of transistors into the radiating elements of an array antenna leads to a suppression of the elemental mutual coupling effects in the feed network. Because of this suppressed interaction, it is possible to re-appraise the practical exploitation of Schelkunoff's principle that an arbitrarily high gain can be obtained from a given array size by suitably feeding the individual elements. A four-element end-fire superdirective array with a total length of 3ʻ/8 and a theoretical beam width of 60° has been investigated. The computed radiation patterns of the passive array indicate the extreme sensitivity to changes in frequency consistent with the classical limitations of supergain arrays. An experimental active array is described which permits the superdirective performance to be maintained over an appreciable frequency band."
"The array formed by elements placed on the surface of a sphere is studied by means of numerical calculations. The elements are assumed to be ideal and the mutual couplings can thus be neglected. By using a uniform element distribution and an active region moving with the main beam, the radiation properties can be kept unchanged within a scan coverage of more than a hemisphere. The grating lobes still remain small even if the element spacings are of the magnitude of a wavelength. Variations in the element field pattern have less influence than in a planar array. In some cases the spherical array can be thinned."
"The cylindrical matrix is a reciprocal corporate microwave network connected between a selector switch and an antenna ring array. The matrix divides and controls the amplitude and phase of the input power and feeds it to a sector of the array. The active array sector forms a highly directive beam normal to the array sector."
"The resonance frequency of a cavity-backed slot antenna and also the Q-factor are highly dependent of the dimensions of the cavity and of the dielectric filling of the cavity. A low Q-factor is desired for wideband frequency performance. Recently, the author published the values of the dimensions of the cavity which gave the lowest Q-factor of a slot antenna at prescribed resonance frequency, slot dimensions, and dielectric constant of the homogeneous cavity filling. However, the optimal cavity dimensions for the slot antenna are too big for using it in a wide scanning square lattice phased array. This paper presents design datas for slot antennas backed by a homogenous filled and optimized cavity where dimension restrictions have been considered. A new design with partially filled cavities will also be presented. Hereby several advantages have been obtained, for example, lower Q-factor, lower weight, better economy, and possibility for a more convenient feeding arrangement."
"A survey on the state of the art in Dielectric Waveguide (DW), stressing in particular the practical microwave applications, is given. The principles for designing DWs, fixing and joining devices, launchers, various multiport networks etc. are founded. A simple theory to calculate parameters of multiport networks with distributed coupling is developped. Some microwave technique problem, which it is reasonable to solve making use of DWs, are discussed. Some advice on the frequency range and materials applied is given. Pictures and photographs of the DWs and the devices designed will be presented. This paper is an attempt to give a survey on the state of the art in Dielectric Waveguide (DW), stressing in particular the practical microwave applications."
"While the microwave community was not the first to discover the benefits of computer-aided design, it has in the last ten years, made extensive use of this extremely powerful tool. The use of computer-aided design for microwave components and subsystems spans the range from simple problems which merely require high-speed capability to massive programs for analysis and synthesis. The application has been so widespread, that computer science for microwave design has become an artform of its own, and is represented in separate sessions in most microwave conferences. This paper attempts to define the areas of microwave computer aided design, and its methods of use. It presents a brief history of computer activities from 1935 until the present time with some comments on present day technology. Finally, some significant shifts of emphasis and future trends are projected."
"A nonlinear theory of noise in synchronized oscillators is outlined, thus extending Kurokawa's work /1/ from small to arbitrary injection levels. As a first application the output noise of synchronized oscillators is calculated for moderate injection signals. It is shown both theoretically and experimentally that the output noise increases for high injection levels. Secondly the FM-noise in two mutually synchronized oscillators is investigated. For moderate coupling a considerable decrease in the output noise is predicted. This result is confirmed by measurements. Finally the applicability of the nonlinear noise theory for analysing sub-harmonically synchronized oscillators is briefly outlined."
"The transient behaviour of stable and injection-locked IMPATT diode microwave amplifiers driven by phase shift keyed signals is investigated. Experimental results obtained with the aid of a fast real time microwave correlator system and bit error rate measurements show that both amplifier modes are suitable for the amplification of PSK signals. At low injection levels the gain bandwidth product of the injection-locked oscillator can be increased considerably by a transient acceleration technique using bias modulation."
"Using specially selected phase-locking systems, the phase transients of Gunn oscillators have been studied with the help of Lissajous figures on a fast sampling oscilloscope. The results show that phase transients can exhibit a complex oscillatory behaviour which only reaches a steady state after a considerable time. Theoretical results based on a phase plane analysis for the dynamic behaviour of phase and amplitude transients for injection locking confirm these experimental observations. Criteria are presented regarding optimum conditions for fast phase switching as employed for such applications as phase-shift-keyed P.C.M. systems."
 "A theory is presented for the investigation of parasitic oscillations in IMPATT-diode oscillators. The theoretically predicted behaviour is found to be in good agreement with experimental results. Examples are given of how the onset of parasitic oscillations can be avoided or can be shifted towards higher signal levels."
"A computer simulation of the operation of IMPATT diodes has been used to investigate the factors which limit the output power available from IMPATTS. Computed and experimental results are compared for existing silicon and gallium arsenide X-band structures: the degree of agreement obtained is taken as support for the diode model. The relative importance of various contributory saturation mechanisms are then isolated and discussed"
"A simple theory for predicting the effects of pump noise on the performance of parametric amplifiers has been developed and verified. It is shown that AM noise on the pump injects both FM and AM noise on the signal magnified by approximately the amplifier gain. It is also shown that FM noise on the pump can yield both FM and AM noise on the amplified signal : in this case the coupling coefficient for simple amplifiers is shown to be a function of the idler bandwidth. Analytic expressions for the maximum coupling factors are quoted for the case of a simple amplifier. Experiments on two different amplifiers are described which both support the theoretical predictions."
"Evaluation of the field from dual reflector scanning antennas using the physical optics approximation is impractical when the main reflector is large. Asymptotically evaluating the physical optics integral yields the geometrical optics field as the first term in the solution. This approximation is not always sufficient as it does not account for diffraction. The next higher order term in the asymptotic expansion yields diffraction effects. This is compared with the geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD). These methods are applied to a practical dual reflector scanning antenna. It is shown that the physical optics and GTD approaches are complementary allowing rapid evaluation of the field."
"The paper presents a numerical procedure to optimize relevant parameters of the antenna, when the random irregularities of the surface and of the incoming field are taken into account. A circular aperture antenna is considered. The randomness of the surface and field irregularities are described by means of the degree of coherence of the statistical process involved. The antenna parameters which are more meaningful for this kind of study are discussed. They are the antenna aperture efficiency η, the ratio η/ηn between efficiency for the wanted field and for noise, and the latter relative to the cost of the antenna. Examples of optimization of these parameters are reported. They give the optimum illumination functions and the optimum dimensions of the antenna."
"A new class of one-hybrid-mode primary focus feed with high aperture efficiency and low spill-over is described. These antennas are suitable for use in deep parabolic reflectors (F/D<0.35). The propagation characteristics in the horn and far field radiation pattern are derived. The antenna efficiency and spill-over are computed. Finally, the comparison between the theoretical and experimental radiation pattern and possible applications are discussed."
"Doubly curved reflector antennas produce different cross-polarization components in the different directions of elevation because of the reflector's curvature. In an one-plane monopulse system often used in the secondary radar case the cross-polarized components fill up the central null in the difference pattern. This effect is shown theoretically and experimentally. The beam width reduction by the monopulse system is therefore in most of the directions of elevation less effective. Hence there is a need of compensation or reduction of the cross-polarization. If the feed consists of dipoles the compensating components can be generated by different inclinations of the dipole stubs. With this technique the critical cross-polarization level in the difference pattern can be reduced by 10 dB typically. With a proper dimensioning a decrease of cross-polarization over the whole elevation angle region is possible."
"The paper begins by summarising the characteristics of a number of mono-pulse aerials applicable to airborne radar. For such a use, it is often important that the aerial has low side lobes. Good sidelobe performance may be obtained with a flat plate array which can have an accurately controlled aperture distribution and is free from feeder blockage and spillover. The development of a novel flat plate sandwich wire array is described and some experimental results are presented."
"You will find in the theoretical part (& II) of this paper, the formulas obtained by the geometrical theory of diffraction (G.T.D.) which allow to calculate the electric field in the near zone of a circular aperture. The numerical calculus (& III) made from these formulas, in the case of D/λ = 27 allowed us to establish transversal sections and radiation patterns to 4 Rr, Rr and Rr/2. Their comparison with reference results established by the electromagnetic theory (E.M.T.) (& IV) authorizes us to draw a conclusion (& V) on the interest of the G.T.D. in the near zone of a circular aperture."
"The problem of computing the dispersion characteristics of shielded microstrip lines is studied using Galerkin's method employed in the Fourier transform domain. Numerical results are compared with other available data and experimental measurements. The dispersion characteristics computed in this paper are also shown to be useful for predicting the end effects of a finite section of microstrip line. Some advantages of the method include simplicity and rapid convergence."
"A new principle of Broadband Matching Network in Transmission Line Circuits is described which can be used for transformer, coupler and other multistructure applications. In this new design, the distance between succeeding impedance steps or coupling holes is much smaller than a quarter of a wavelength. This results in a greater number of steps or holes and lower single step reflections for a given coupling function or overall impedance transform ratio. The performance is therefore considerably improved. As an illustrative example, a waveguide directional coupler using the new network principle is shown. This technique can also be used for the development of very wide bandwidth (10:1) components."
"Various new techniques are described for the analysis and design optimization of gradually tapered waveguide mode transducers. Some of these are applicable to a broad range of transducers, couplers, etc., but the work describes particular application to a mode transducer for use in TEOl trunk waveguide systems."
"A method is presented for the design of an input stage such that the input admittance is the optimum for minimum noise conditions. Furthermore, this condition can be obtained for almost any chosen passive load. This has been achieved by means of 2 lossless feedback elements in a shunt and series configuration. Also presented are formulae for the noise parameters of a stage to which a rather general type of feedback has been added and the graphical representations of some noise and gain expressions."
"Computer simulations have been carried out of switching behaviour and design optimization of microwave PIN structures used in millimetre-wave communications. The simulation operates in the time domain and uses an implicit iterative method to obtain the internal distributions and terminal response of PIN diodes in a simple, but realistic circuit. The use of the program as a research tool aimed to the understanding of the internal processes, and also as a design tool for the optimization of the diode structure, will be presented together with a comparison of the computed results with those measured experimentally."
"The optimal immunization of a microwave network against parameter tolerances can be achieved more simply than by a \"worst case\" approach if certain sacrifices in final conclusiveness are accepted. The paper describes such a simplified procedure and discusses some practical aspects of its use. The crux of the procedure lies in the proposed efficient method for the calculation of large-change scattering parameter sensitivities."
"Numerical optimization is used to design broad-band tunable circuits, with a given reflection coefficient. The design of a varactor tuned Gunn oscillator serves as an example of this approach. Constraints on the variables are given as bounds for realizability, specifications on the tuning variable and conditions for stable operation. Measurements and modelling of used components are discussed briefly. Results for the designed oscillator are given."
"This paper describes a klystron amplifier designed to operate at optical frequencies. The theory of the interaction between light waves constrained by thin, rectangular light guides and transverse electron beams is considered. The electron beams are shown to be velocity modulated at emergence from the intense E field in the first pipe. Bunches are allowed to form and the bunched beams are passed across a second light pipe in which they induce an amplified light signal. The quantum theory of the interaction has been compared with the classical interaction theory. The comparison shows that the two theories are identical, except for a quantum term of order h 73x003C9;/muo 2, which is negligible for the numerical values of our design. Thus, in our case quantum and classical theories lead to identical results."
  "Single material fibers made of low loss material may be superior to cladded or mixed material fibers with respect to optical propagation properties concerned with absorption losses. Thin film fibers with convex surface have self focussing properties similar to those of inhomogeneous fibers with quadratic index profile. By using the method of conformal mapping fundamental characteristics of guided modes in optical films with convex surfaces are found. Transverse fields of guided modes have Hermite Gaussian properties. Spot sizes of guided modes are inversely proportional to square roots of the product of wave constant √ß2 1-ß2 z and quadratic coefficient of convex surface (l+a)lox. Dispersion characteristics of the guided modes are discussed."
 "Surface and volume magnetostatic mode resonances of an axially magnetized YIG rod is used for the diffraction and intensity modulation of 1,15μ He-Ne laser beam. YIG crystal is excited with a dielectric microwave resonator at S band. Amplitude modulation of the microwave source produces intensity modulation on the diffracted laser beam. Critical Bragg angles are not needed and the first order diffracted beams are found symmetric about the zero order."
  "The development and application of a gigahertz repetition rate pulse generator using the anti-parallel Trapatt circuit is described. The pulse generator produces 100 psec risetime pulses at 1 GHz repetition rates with over 200 volts amplitude into a 50 ohm load or open circuit and up to 4 amps into a short circuit. This represents a considerable improvement over circuits using a single diode, in terms of both output and external circuit interaction. A pulse generator of this type is currently being used in a novel technique for detailed examination of the avalanche characteristics of microwave devices, and some initial results are presented for X-band Trapatt devices."
"Space and time dispersions of carrier distribution included in an avalanche build up process are discussed in Si and GaAs, especially concentrating on exchange frequency from an avalanche to a tunneling in a carrier injection mechanism in transit time diodes. GaAs multilayer structure has been pointed out favorable to realize the relatively low exchange frequency. GaAs high-low-high multilayer diodes (M n+ n n+ ) are fabricated by successive liquid phase epitaxy and exhibit oscillations due to tunnel injection at 92 GHz."
"We study theoretically and experimentally the effect of a tunnel injection on high efficiency IMPATT avalanche diodes characterized by high low or low high low doping profile. Taking into account effects of tunneling some characteristics usually observed of such high efficiency IMPATT oscillator are explained. Then some criteria are deduced to select the best doping profile in order to obtain high efficiency in the centimeter wave region."
"Recent experimental and theoretical results on a silicon avalanche diode up-converter are reported. A simplified theoretical analysis is developed in order to design the semiconductor device. Based upon the somewhat ideaLized Read model, this theory explains the main parametric effect used for frequency conversion. Experimental circuits were built and have allowed to obtain a good agreement between experimental and theoretical results. Up-conversion is achieved with a maximum output power of 23 dBm and about 0 dB conversion loss. The DC bias, intermediate frequency power (IoF) and transponded frequency dependence are studied."
"A convenient technique is described to measure the internal circuit loss, the load conductance and equivalent circuit susceptances of an IMPATT oscillator. The diode is biased just below its breakdown voltage and is used as a resonant reflection absorber. From these frequency dependent characteristics we are able to separate the load and internal circuit loss conductances providing that the circuit is singly resonant. The experimental technique does not require any mechanical disturbance of the diode in contrast to many network analyser techniques. It also allows a rapid and simple confirmation that the circuit is singly resonant."
"A microwave holographic technique is used to obtain quantitative data on the amplitude and phase of the principal and cross-polarised fields in the aperture of a large reflector antenna. The hologram formation process utilises the existing scanning system of the antenna. Data is processed computationally using the FFT and is visually displayed in hard copy with 32 levels. The lateral and longitudinal positioning of the E- and H-plane phase centres of the feed is located and the r.m.s. value of the reflector surface profile errors obtained. Accurate prediction of E- and H-plane radiation patterns in any section of the near and far fields can be obtained from the reconstructed aperture distributions. The technique provides a total description of the antenna."
"This paper shows the results of holographic imaging experiments at the 35 GHz band. The hologram was reduced by an inserted lens and the images were reconstructed by computer. The effects of changes in both, the hologram-structure, i.e. hologram-size and sampling, and in the measured amplitude and phase values by quantization upon the reconstructed image are shown. The disturbance of the images, i.e. the appearance of 'hot spots', caused by the imaging of three-dimensional metallic objects is reduced by aspect-angle diversity or by frequency diversity. Applying two different reference-phase measurements, the limitations of the object's translational and rotational movements during the hologram recording are given."
"In longwave holography, the detection of the incident object wavefronts in the recording plane is accomplished by means of an array of detectors, or by a single scanning detector. It is shown that the retrived image is a function also of the Fourier transform of the spatial location of the detecting elements in the recording plane. Analysis and experiments show that one of the best image performances is predicted with the \"Anti Fresnel Zone\" geometrical arrangement."
 "This paper describes radiating elements using microelectronic integrated circuits (MIC) techniques. A method of investigation has been developped, using liquid crystals which permits to study matching and radiating parameters of tested elements. Performances of these elements are compared to performances of classic elements (i.e. horn), taking into account either electrical characteristics, either size. Examples of multielement antennas are given : log periodic array, multi slot array. The advantages of these antennas are discussed and the integration of MIC radiating elements in a more complex circuit is illustrated by a X band receiver and a X band radar head."
   "The continuing evolution of new components is resulting in corresponding advances in radar systems. The paper commences with a brief review of some of the basic radar parameters which have been influenced in the recent past by improvements in component technology and an indication is given of the ranges of these parameters which are now available to the designer. The principal part of the paper is a survey of the recent advances made in radar sub-systems and systems and in the understanding of the radar characteristics of targets and clutter. The review of sub-systems covers electronic beam steering, pulse compression, signal and data processors, constant false alarm rate circuits and displays. System principles discussed include within-pulse scanning, low-angle tracking techniques and synthetic aperture radar."
"Passive single crystal, ferrite limiters have been developed in several frequency ranges with instantaneous bandwidths of better than 20%, limiting thresholds of less than +20 dbm, and dynamic ranges of more than 20 db. A compact, traveling-wave structure comprised of an array of high-Q dielectric resonators yields a low level insertion loss of less than 1 db at all frequencies. Low linewidth spheres of yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) or lithium ferrite are placed in a region of high r.f. magnetic field of each dielectric resonator, and a permanent magnet serves to bias the ferrites to the non-linear region of subsidiary-resonance absorption. Structures of this type have been built for the ranges of 4.4 to 5.0 GHz, 8 to 10 GHz, 10 to 12 GHz, 12 to 14 GHz and 14 to 16 GHz. All limiters exhibit the excellent frequency selectivity characteristics of YIG devices."
"A frequency-transformation is introduced which maps a low-pass ladder network into a ladder of transmission-lines of prescribed length. A non-redundant coupled-line realization is given for proto-types having transmission-zeros either at finite or at infinite frequencies. The design method is both theoretically and practically suitable for the design of narrow and broad band filters. In the paper theory, design steps as well as computational and measuring results are given."
"Well-known microstrip filters, using λ/2 straightline resonators, offer problems with integration, viz. 1) their frequency characteristic depends on the packaging; 2) parasitic coupling occurs towards the remainder of the circuit. A usual solution of this problem is either to place the filter in a separate box or to use absorbing material. Our approach has been to chose the configuration of the resonator and remainder of the filter such, that minimum radiation and surfacewave excitation occurred. The λ/2 open-ring resonator satisfied this condition. Narrow (≈ 2%) as well as moderate bandwidth (≈ 10%) bandpass - and bandstop filters have been developed in this manner (at X-band on Alumina) with better performance than the well--known straightline ones."
"It is the purpose of this paper to show that planar broad-band 3 db directional couplers can be constructed in micro-strip-slot and thin film technique, etching both sides of a ceramic substrate. No overlapping or bonding wires are needed and the dimensions of the layout are by no means critical. An accurate, straightforward and closed form theory, which has been developed for this type of coupler, allows 3 db couplers to be constructed whose measured performance is within a few tenths of db of the predicted performance. The measured insertion loss of these couplers, including the connector losses, is as low as 0.3 db in C-band and 0.6 db in X-band. The ±0.5 db bandwidth is approximately one octave and the isolation of the coupler is better than 30 db over this band."
"A new waveguide-microstrip transition is described. This design provides wide-band performance (18-26GHz) and a very good reproducibility without the need for variable elements. The circuit is fully integrated on the substrate and the characteristics are much less sensitive to small variations in the dimensions than other known transitions. A narrow-band version is made in particular for the telecommunication band (17.7 - 19.7GHz) with a VSWR less than 1.1 and an attenuation less than 0.25dB. The design can be easily scaled to other frequencies and is in particular useful at frequencies above 10GHz."
 "It is current practice to match a given discontinuity in waveguide by means of an identical one (matching element) placed a quarter-wavelength away from the first. For accessible discontinuities, a superior technique consists in placing two matching elements symmetrically with respect to the (symmetric) discontinuity, so that they are seen as its dual. Usually a discontinuity behaves as a nonresonant element, for instance a lumped capacitance. Then its dual is also \"lumped\" and must be placed at the location of the discontinuity, with hardly ary length of waveguide interposed. Due to interaction via higher-order modes, a two-port representation of the individual discontinuities no longer holds. Therefore application of the new matching technique requires accurate, wideband, finite multiport equivalent circuits of the discontinuities. As an example, it is shown numerically and experimentally how an iris with original reflection coefficient of 40% can be matched over the whole waveguide band with a residual reflection ⩽2%."
"A new 6 GHz radio relay equipment is described which includes a number of broadband microwave integrated circuits. These have been constructed using novel techniques which enable a number of microwave elements to be included on a single substrate. Use of integrated circuits has resulted in a compact equipment arrangement, which is housed in a slim rack configuration. Output powers of up to 1 W are achieved by a multi-stage IMPATT diode amplifier or up to 10 W by a high efficiency travelling wave tube. The two types of amplifiers and their associated power supplies are directly interchangeable, resulting in a versatile system suitable for either 960 or 1800 telephone channel operation."
"The paper describes an FM radio link in the 11 GHz frequency band with a capacity of up to 1800 telephone channels and a transmit power of 20 W. After a general outline of the system, some of the critical microwave components are described. Special care was taken to achieve low loss for the branching networks and negligible thermal noise for the active components. Typical one hop performance of a prototype is discussed."
"An all solid state 13 GHz link for transmission of 32 and 120 channel PCM signals has been developed at NERA AS, Division Bergen. The latest developments in solid state design has been utilized in the design. The transmitter power is generated by a phase locked 2 GHz microstrip oscillator followed by a microstrip broadband multiplier. The receiver local oscillator is a 2 GHz phase locked cavity oscillator. The local oscillator multiplier is integrated with the balanced mixer on a common alumina substrate. 2 -PSK modulation with coherent demodulation is employed. The digital signals are regenerated before transmission and after demodulation."
"The Communications Transponder of the Communications Technology Satellite incorporates a number of advanced-technology units designed to provide a reliable, high-power, microwave communications capability at 14/12 GHz for experimental purposes. The advanced-technology units discussed include a 14 GHz Parametric Amplifier, 12 GHz Field-Effect Transistor Amplifiers, Graphite-Fibre/Epoxy Composite Filters, Low-loss Isolators, 20 Watt Travelling Wave Tube Amplifiers and a 200 Watt, 12 GHz Travelling Wave Tube Amplifier having an efficiency of 50 percent. The principal features of the transponder design are discussed as well as the characteristics of the units presently being integrated into the engineering model transponder."
 "The results of an investigation on the performance of an optical communication link in the area of Rome are described. Binary pulse polarization modulation at 76 Mbit/sec has been used, with a helium neon laser working at 6328 Å and a propagation path 3.6 km long. The possibility of achieving low error rates at high affidability is discussed."
"This paper describes the synthesis, optimization and realization of a non-contiguous six-channel multiplexer composed of filters fabricated using GFEC as the basic waveguide material. This material is much lighter than Invar but possesses a similar coefficient of thermal expansion. The multiplexer is realized without any decoupling resonators to minimize weight and loss. Measured results on the complete multiplexer including the effect of temperature are presented. This design, presently being incorporated in the payload of a 24-channel domestic communications satellite, has resulted in a weight saving of nearly 50% over that of the light-weighted Invar multiplexers used in the present generation of satellites."
"Original work is described on the application of refinements in Liquid Phase Epitaxy (LPE) of yttrium iron garnet (YIG) to the fabrication of tunable microwave filters. The advantages in cost and performance of this approach over the conventional YIG sphere technology are discussed. The developments in the LPE of YIG and the reactor used are described. The viability of LPE-YIG filters is demonstrated by linewidth and external Q (Qe) measurements on bandstop and bandpass filters. Techniques for resonator-resonator coupling are described. The design parameters and measured performance of multi-pole bandpass filters are compared and shown to be consistent."
"This paper describes some work on MIC plastic encapsulation using transfer moulding techniques. After the establishment of a suitable coaxial to microstrip transition the studies progressed through the encapsulation of a series of hybrid microstrip circuits for use at J(Ku) band frequencies. The final result was the realisation of a balanced mixer for use at about 17 GHz in an encapsulation of injection moulded plastic, comparable in microwave performance to its more conventionally metal encapsulated counterparts."
"A novel thin film downconverter which is pumped at a submultiple of the local oscillator frequency has given a conversion loss which is comparable to the performance of conventional balanced mixers. The converter consists of two stripline filters and two Schottky barrier diodes which are shunt mounted in a strip transmission line. The conversion loss measured at a signal frequency of 3.5 GHz is 3.2 dB for a pump frequency of 1.7 GHz and 4.9 dB for a pump frequency of 0.85 GHz. The circuit looks attractive for use at millimeter-wave frequencies where stable pump sources with low FM noise are not readily available."
  "Because of the non-linear characteristics of current-carrying contact areas in waveguides and coaxial connectors, combination frequencies with very small amplitudes are generated, when these components are to carry two or more frequencies. Inmicrowave systems these mixing products of odd orders cause interfering intermodulation noise. The amplitudes of the non-linear distortions are primarily determined by the magnitude of the contact pressure and by the amplitude of the current flowing through the contact. A test set-up for determining the level of intermodulation noise is described and test results are shown, which have been gained at RF powers of up to 1000 Watts in the 2 GHz band. They indicate that the interfering power of the combination frequency of the third order is up to 500 Watts in good agreement with the theory, being proportional to the third power of the applied signal power. Measurements on flange connections contaminated with salts of metals indicate similar characteristics."
"A research program, sponsored by Istituto Superiore Poste e Telecomunicazioni and developed by Centro Onde Millimetriche of Fondazione Ugo Bordoni, is currently in progress in Italy, with the purpose of demonstrating the feasibility and of finding general design criteria for a circular waveguide telecommunication system. The C.O.M. has taken upon itself the investigation of the transmission medium and the setting up of a field trial, while various national firms have been encharged to develop an experimental equipment, working at a high bit rate (800 Mbit/s), which allows the transmission and the bit error rate measurement of two binary streams in a circular waveguide channel at 41 GHz, with QPSK modulation and coherent demodulation."
"This report describes construction and performance of the millimeter-wave solid state regenerative repeaters which were designed and built for use in the field trial circuit of the \"W-40G\" guided millimeter-wave transmission system presently under development at Electrical Communication Laboratories, NTT, Japan. The repeater consists of five kinds of panels; a transmitter-receiver panel, a delay equalizer panel, a MODEM panel and two auxiliary panels. The transmitter-receiver panel, which is described in some detail in this report, has a front end noise figure of about 11 dB, an output power of 9 dBm and a transmission bandwidth of about 0.8 GHz, in the 80 GHz region. A good regenerative performance of the repeaters in the 50, 60 and 80 GHz band was confirmed in the 22.7 km long field trial circuit."
"An experimental 800 Mbit/s trans-receiver for circular waveguide application has been designed and realized at GTE-Telecomunicazioni Transmission Laboratory as a part of an Italian research program on high capacity mm-wave communication systems. The whole program [1] [2] is sponsored by the Italian Post and Telecommunication Office (ISPT). The equipment consists of a 41 GHz four-phase transmitter operating at 800 Mbit/s and of a corresponding receiver featuring coherent demodulation at 3.6 GHz IF frequency and regeneration of the received digital signal. The equipment is described in some detail and the measured system performances are also given and briefly discussed."
  "The characteristics of H-guide have been investigated theoretically and experimentally. A modified form allows support of very thin films across the guide and provides some higher order mode suppression. Measurements at 26-40 GHz by a resonance technique have verified the general performance characteristics of the guide. Losses < 0.1 dB/m and < 1 dB/m are predicted theoretically in the 100-300 GHz and 300-1000 GHz regions respectively."
"A rectangular waveguide commutating-hybrid array channelling filter and a centre-excited band branching unit have been combined to form a frequency division multiplexing (f.d.m.) network in the 32-50GHz frequency region. These units terminate the circular waveguide in a millimetric trunk communication system. The 32-90GHz frequency range is divided into transmit-receive sub-bands by the band branching unit which also transduces the TE01° mode in circular waveguide into the TE10 □ mode of rectangular waveguide. A commutating-hybrid array, constructed from rectangular waveguide, further divides each 32-40GHz and 41-49GHz sub-bands into sixteen individual channels spaced 0.5GHz apart. For these sub-bands the average insertion losses measured for the complete f.d.m. network, i.e. between the circular waveguide input to the channel output, are 2.0 and 2.88dB. This paper summarizes the operating principles and measured electrical characteristics. A statistical analysis of results is presented together with an outline of the mechanical construction employed."
 "This standard was developed as a replacement for Section 8. (Test Procedures) of American National Standard for Low-Voltage AC Power Circuit Protectors Used in Enclosures, C37.29-1974 (IEEE Std 508-1974), for the purpose of providing a separate document to facilitate use by independent testing laboratories. Since these test procedures are considered new by the laboratories, experience factors may require revision and a separate document can be revised quickly and economically.This standard is one of several in a series of test procedures standards for certification of various switchgear products. They establish the mandatory requirements that a product must meet (as certified by an independent testing laboratory) in order to satisfy federal law and local electrical codes."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
   "Power electronics is a technology which is interstitial to all three of the major disciplines of electrical engineering: electronics, power, and control. Yet its rapidly expanding significance has not been widely recognized, and the historical parochialism of specialists within the technology has stifled communication and cooperation in solving increasingly challenging problems. This paper calls for an end to this parochialism, leading to the emergence of an important new discipline and profession."
"An updated description of process control status using on-line computers at Martin Marietta Cement's Western Division plants at Tulsa, Okla, and Lyons, Colo., is presented. The company's approach to automation including training of plant personnel is briefly outlined. The Tulsa plant, which has had a General Electric GEPAC 4040 computer on-line since 1966, is discussed first. A brief summary of the computer hardware and software precedes a discussion on kiln control, cooler control, and raw mix proportioning control using the computer. The paper's coverage of the Leeds and Northrup 5200 computer installation at the Lyons plant is more extensive since it is of more recent vintage (late 1969 installation) and since it is used for direct digital control rather than used to drive the analog control set-points (DAC) as is the case at Tulsa. The hardware and software at Lyons is described in some detail. The DDC loops for the raw mill, the kiln, the cooler, and the finish mill are identified together with indication of the loop status and problems involved. Raw mix proportioning control is outlined briefly. The paper concludes with a discussion of the comparative advantages of DDC (versus DAC) and Martin Marietta's plans for future process control progress."
"Within recent years substantial progress has been achieved relative to applying advanced control techniques to the cement-making process. Improved digital hardware plus proven application software has fostered such progress. Based on specific control philosophies developed jointly by vendors and users a wide variety of digital systems have been configured."
"Familiarity with NEMA standards and the influence of the power supply on the motor-load system permits the user to make the necessary decision as to whether a standard or special motor is needed for his particular application. This paper highlights the more important aspects of NEMA standards for ac induction motors from the application engineer's standpoint and the effect of the power supply and the load on motor characteristics."
"Synchronous motors must be designed to have torque-speed characteristics which will match the load they are to accelerate. Motor designers have several parameters at their disposal for shaping the torque-speed curve of the motor, perhaps even more than the induction-motor designer. Maximum utilization of this available motor torque may, however, depend upon the effectiveness of the control apparatus associated with the motor for starting, synchronizing, and desynchronizing. Lack of effective control can result in the motor failing to pull in the load, or it can result in large power swings which can disturb the electrical system, damage the driven load, or damage the motor."
"Today's codes and regulations make a coordinated power system a must for cement plants, both new ones and also the older plants. Short-circuit calculations must be made for ali possible fault points in the system. Based on calculated fault currents, all the system protective devices must be applied and coordinated properly to achieve a coordinated power system."
"Motor control centers, as their name implies, provide a convenient means of centralizing the operation, protection, control, and maintenance of motor feeder and branch circuits. To permit their application in systems having high fault current capability and to retain circuit integrity and reliable usage, various aspects are considered including economic factors and compliance with relevant test standards. In this manner, best characteristics of motor control centers are utilized and satisfactory performance is realized by the owner."
"Those areas of the tire fabric calender process where the total systems approach can today put the computer into proper perspective and squarely into the economic arena will be outlined in terms of process objectives,the system to meet these objectives, and the method of implementation to guarantee the attainment of the objectives. Finally, some of the results achieved from the installation of this process management system at Cooper Tire will be noted. The system described employs a digital processor to achieve control on four levels: 1) automatic control of the calender, 2) human engineered operator display, 3) production sumarries for supervisor personnel and, 4) a real-time production reporting system for mangement."
 "In just eleven years, 1962-1973, adjustable-speed drives based on the SCR have progressed from zero to perhaps 80 percent of the market. Their real advantages are incontestable, high performance, efficiency, and reliability versus low cost, weight, size, and maintenance. But compatibility of the SCR drives with the ac line has become a live subject, to be covered in three parts in this paper. 1) AC line disturbance discusses the effects of the SCR drives on the ac line. 2) Short-circuit protection describes the adverse effects large power systems can have on SCR drives unless proper precautions are taken. 3) Isolation by means of a transformer is sometimes desirable to minimize these effects."
"Recent major advances in instrumentation technology and in the development of the control minicomputer have made completely automatic control of an entire plant of extruders, injection machines, etc., entirely practical. The techniques and advantages of computerized control and management over conventional techniques are discussed in detail."
"Ultrahigh-voltage thyristors with a blocking voltage of 4-10 kV were developed by double diffusion technique. A new surface contouring technique realized in this development gives excellent blocking characteristics and is effective in minimizing the reduction of current-carrying area. To study the feasibility of ultrahigh-voltage thyristors, their electrical characteristics were estimated. According to the experimental results, the blocking voltage is restricted by their dynamic properties, especially turn-off time. The limit for the rated voltage may be about 5 kV at the present stage."
"In pulsewidth-modulated inverters used for variable-frequency applications, a number of harmonic control policies can be used. Most of these policies are complex to implement by hardware. The most simple and yet effective technique is synchronizing or the synchronized harmonic control policy. This paper uses double Fourier analysis techniques to obtain the output harmonics as a function of pulsewidth, pulsing frequency, and output frequency. The method obtains the harmonics as analytical functions and thus provides the necessary relationships for control studies and system optimization. The more significant theoretical results are provided and theoretical and experimental results obtained from a 25-kW three-phase pulsewidth-modulated inverter, are compared."
"A new method is described in which the dc motor may regenerate power effectively to ac supply. The principle is similar to that with a dc chopper for regeneration of the power from dc motor to dc supply. In this new method, however, thyristor switches synchronizing to the ac supply are used instead of a dc chopper. The principle and the power calculations as well as experimental results are presented. From theoretical and experimental considerations it is clarified that there exist suitable trigger angles in the thyristor of the synchronizing switches."
"The pulsewidth-moduated (PWM) inverter has many inherent characteristics that make it a good choice for use in modern man-made fiber drives. Its wide operating speed range without tap changes and constant dc bus for ease of ``ride through'' are two primary examples. Although drives using PWM inverters are well suited to man-made fiber applications, the inverter design is compatible with general industrial applications using induction motors in single motor, multimotor, and coordinated multimotor drives."
"The design principles and operating characteristics of a novel three-phase step motor are explained."
"An analysis is made of the functions of the series inductances in the ac-dc thyristor converting units, and the results of a theoretical study of their rating criteria are summarized. Such work was made as part of the recent redesign of ac-dc converters."
"With the progressively higher rolling speeds employed by manufacturers of metal strip and the requirements of closer gauge tolerance by the metal strip users, it has become increasingly important to have available a high-speed thickness-measuring device. Such a device can be a useful tool in analyzing high-speed mill variations as well as providing a low-noise high-accuracy signal for automatic control of thickness."
"A new mill is supplied by a weak power system subject to numerous faults. The faults cause supply-voltage dips which result in production interruptions. The major problems that were experienced, the studies that were conducted, and the alterations made to improve the dynamic performance of the utility and mill power systems are described."
"The paper covers the application and performance of a cycloconverter type frequency converter and a doubly fed wound rotor ac motor as applicable to adjustable speed drive systems for pump and compressor loads. The paper covers the subject by discussion of the following: 1) basic theory and operation of a cycloconverter and a doubly fed wound rotor motor; 2) motor and converter ratings to meet the performance requirements of typical pump and compressor applications; 3) control schemes for starting, running, and process control; 4) efficiency and power factor; and 5) summation, including advantages of adjustable speed ac drive systems and static frequency conversion equipments."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
  "Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Equipment grounding is one of the most important, but least understood, requirements for reliable ground-fault protection. This paper defines the basic objectives of equipment grounding and analyzes the role of equipment grounding conductors in providing ground-fault protection for electrical systems below 600 V."
"It is known that arcing ground faults on 480-V systems are often too small to actuate phase protective devices. GFI's have been introduced to ensure clearance of such faults. They are costly when used in quantity and are mandatory only on large-capacity circuits. Their use will, therefore, be limited. The hazard of exposure voltages which are not removed by phase protective devices, therefore, remains of great concern. The magnitude of exposure voltage on several common wiring systems is explored and the relative safety evaluated. Different systems produce exposure voltages with maximums ranging from 40 to 190 V. Means are presented for reducing the exposure voltage on those systems that are most hazardous."
"Condensed general guidelines are presented in each of a series of five papers compiled by the Emergency and Standby Power Systems Subcommittee of the Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Committee, so that the users of electrical power may evaluate their need for the subject systems. Recommended systems and hardware are described."
"The needs for emergency and standby power to enhance industrial and commercial power systems are frequently left wanting due to ignorance of the needs or of the systems available to satisfy the needs. This paper discusses various situations which require or desire emergency or standby power and mentions suitable systems for each application. The areas discussed include lighting, start-up power, transportation, mechanical utilities, heating, refrigeration, and production."
"The needs for site-supplied emergency or standby backup electric power have been demonstrated many times. For some types of equipment and applications, insurors and regulatory agencies stipulate that adequate backup must be provided. In many cases, sorely needed redundant supply is not provided due to complacency because of unawareness of possible costly problems or to ignorance of requirements. The legal entanglements and costly problems arising from an unexpected power failure shutting down the following facilities and those previously discussed should be thoroughly analyzed. This paper discusses situations and systems requiring analysis in the categories of fire protection, signal circuits, communication systems, data processing, space conditioning, and critical life systems. An attempt will be made to highlight how dependent our total existence is on electrical energy from sources outside of our control. Attention being directed to problem areas will help in determining how much backup, or firm power, electrical equipment is sufficient insurance against ``the day the lights went out'' and how much is pure luxury."
"Industrial and commercial installations generally require more than one power source to ensure continuity of electrical power to essential loads. Two principal methods are 1) two utility services and 2) one utility service and on-site generation. Load requirements, reliability, installation feasibility, and economy are some of the governing factors in the selection of which combination of power sources should be used. Furthermore, transfer switches, overcurrent protective devices, and associated controls must be coordinated in the system."
"Mechanical or battery-stored energy systems are used when an uninterruptible or buffered power system is required. Seven different types of systems available are described and compared."
"An IEEE sponsored survey of electrical equipment reliability in industrial plants was completed during 1972. The results are reported from this survey which included a total of 1982 equipment failures that were reported by 30 companies covering 68 plants in nine industries in the United States and Canada."
"An IEEE sponsored reliability survey of industrial plants was completed during 1972. This survey included the cost of power outages, plant restart time, critical service loss duration time, and type of loads lost versus power outage duration time. Survey results reflect data from 30 companies covering 68 plants in nine industries in the United States and Canada. This information is useful in the design of industrial power distribution systems."
"An IEEE sponsored reliability survey of industrial plants was completed during 1972. This included the causes and types of failures of electrical equipment, the methods of repair, and the urgency of repair. The results are reported from the survey of 30 companies covering 68 plants in nine industries in the United States and Canada. This information is useful in the design of industrial power distribution systems."
"This paper describes how minicomputers are applied to cTc operation, how they function in this application, and the needs they fulfill in today's technology."
"Short circuit ABC--learn it in an-hour, use it anywhere, memorize no formula. The MVA method for solving industrial power system short circuits appropriately fits this description. Indeed, solving short circuit problems with the MVA method is as easy as learning the ABC's."
"Normally, coil and load end effects are neglected when calculating the power generated in an inductively heated load. Empirical correction factors are used to account for the effects of leakage flux. In this paper, the coil and load are approximated by a short current sheet and an infinitely long conductor. The resulting load power distribution is determined analytically for a cylindrical geometry. A correction factor that can be incorporated directly in the classical expression for load power is then derived in closed form. This factor describes the axial distribution of power in the load and inherently includes the effects of leakage flux. Numerical values are given in normalized form for a wide range of coil-load configurations. The accuracy of the method is illustrated by comparing predicted and experimental values of load power. The improvement relative to the classical methods is discussed."
"The analysis of low-voltage consumer accidents in Israel in the years 1960 to 1969 is summarized. Results involving the matrix of factors that caused the accident, breakdown according to contact with energized (voltage-carrying) metalware, and the involvement of faulty earthing are presented. The conventional protective method (earthing to metallic water mains) is evaluated and, in light of the high percentage of accidents due to live conductors, the introduction of ground-fault interrupters is advocated."
"This paper involves system description and installation procedures followed for connecting a process control computer to existing dye house machinery."
"There is a need for a reliable method of assigning group classifications to mixtures of flammable gases and liquids not covered by Section 500-2 of the National Electrical Code. A method of predicting group classifications for single components has been developed, and a procedure for extending this method to mixtures is suggested. If this procedure can be verified, a new tool will be available which will allow more accurate classification of the hazardous materials in process plants."
"The paper deals with typical noise considerations on stem turbines, gas turbines, electric motors, and gears which are used in large compressor drives in the petroleum and chemical industry. The paper considers such things as 1) the factors which contribute to the noise encountered on various drivers; 2) the typical noise levels for the basic drivers for various horsepowers and speeds; 3) various methods of reducing noise on each type of driver; and 4) considerations when installed in the actual plant environment."
"The paper presents a comprehensive review of computer based supervisory control systems for pipeline control. It is organized into two main sections dealing with the functional requirements and the equipment requirements for these applications. Each of these main sections deals with general considerations and then specifically with central station terminal facilities and remote station requirements. The equipment section is supplemented with a discussion of system assembly and test procedures."
"A performance evaluation system for a steam-propelled merchant ship is described which utilizes a general-purpose computer for data acquisition and analysis. The performance of the steam plant on the ship's maiden voyage is used as the performance base line, and subsequent evaluations are referenced to this base line. The diagnostic and prognostic capabilities of the system are presented in a description of the graphical display of the historical and real-time data. The operating costs of the vessel are reduced since effective maintenance planning and scheduling can be accomplished, resulting in greater ship availability."
"The background for the design of an isolated power system in the forbidding Arctic region of the United States is described. This description includes nature's and the ecological background for design; engineering planning for Arctic facilities; electric power system design problems; and electrical equipment applications."
 "Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "A salt bath furnace is basically a ceramic or metal container filled with molten salt into which work is immersed for either heating or cooling. The furnace contains salt such as nitrates, nitrites, caustic soda, chlorides, carbonates, and cyanide. Mixtures of salt are selected to give a specific temperature range and a desired treatment (or lack of treatment) to the surface of the material being processed. When we want to change the physical properties of something without changing the surface of it, we use neutral salts such as chlorides and nitrates. We can change the surface conditions of a part by placing it in a salt bath furnace having ingredients that react chemically with the surface as in carburizing, cyaniding, nitriding, and aluminizing. Other salts are formulated to remove scale, paint, plastic, or organic contamination."
"Current penetration welding is a new technique utilizing unusual high-frequency current phenomena. A new and fast current penetration finite-length lip welding process is described. Metal lips to be joined are heated by high-frequency current and are squeezed to produce a forge weld."
"The widespread acceptance of solid-state powement equipment for induction heating has introduced to the production setup man a new set of parameters for load power matching and tuning. As a manufacturer of solid-state power for induction heating applications, the author offers a semitechnical presentation of induction load characteristics, simplified inverter theory, and load power matching guide lines for users of motor generator or solid-state inverters."
"A lumped-parameter dynamic model of the thermal characteristics of an ac plasma torch is developed. Particular emphasis is placed upon developing a model directly suited to the requirements of automatic control analysis. It is shown that the magnetic flux density and supply voltage are desireable control inputs since they lead to the least complex dynamic representation. A state-variable approach is adopted, and the system matrix coefficients are evaluated for a typical plasma torch configuration. The variations of these coefficients with gas flow and magnetic flux density are determined. The model will be of use to engineers concerned with the application and control of plasma torches in electroheat processes."
"The reconstruction of rail geometry from measured curvature data is analyzed. The mathematical concept of curvature is developed and utilized in numerical integration of differential equations describing the rail path. Formulas are derived for various chord-displacement methods of measuring curvature and for their measurement response functions. The reconstruction of rail shapes is demonstrated by means of computer simulation, and the effects of measurement response and measurement error are analyzed. Accuracies are compared with those that might be obtained with accelerometer devices used to measure curvature. The techniques and results can be applied to the design of practical rail measurement systems."
"A technical survey of the automated stationary and mobile track test train systems to date is presented. The use and availability of sensors is also reviewed. A method of in-situ excitation in conjunction with a radio interrogation coupled to existing railway communication systems is discussed. The automatic inspection system proposed here is limited to the track bed and the rails. The rails are tested for any fissures and flaws and not for the crossover error and misalignment, although these are invariably also caused by the settling of the track bed. The major feature of this system is the real-time segment interrogations system. Track spacial deployment to cover maximum optimum segment is, however, also discussed. The need for the railroad industry to expand its efforts in the area of the development of automatic track and track bed inspection is shown to be highly desirable as well as economical from an operational standpoint."
"A new 50-kV 60-Hz electric locomotive haeen designed to meet American railroad standards and requirements. This new locomotive has been designated the E6OC, with a nominal rating of 6000 equivalent diesel horsepower (4500 kW). Many of the design features of the locomotive are described. In order to operate 125 km (78 mi) from the substation, provisions were made in the locomotive circuits for operation at line voltages as low as 50 percent of nominal."
 "With the advent of solid-state devices, various methods have been devised to use induction motors for variable-speed drives. Most of these schemes use a variable-frequency source; that is, the power is supplied through a cycloconverter or inverter to the induction motor. However, the voltage obtained by such methods does not have a sinusoidal waveshape. To predict the performance, therefore, we have to simulate the system using either an analog or digital computer. A method to simulate digitally a drive system consisting of a cycloconverter connected to a constant three-phase sinusoidal voltage source and an induction motor is given."
"This is the second part of a paper describing the digital simulation of an ac drive system consisting of a three-phase induction motor supplied by a cycloconverter. In Part I, it is assumed that the cycloconverter is connected to a three-phase sinusoidal power source having negligible impedance. In this part, the complete system is simulated, including a three-phase synchronous generator, which in a practical system is driven by a prime mover at constant speed. To simplify the simulation process, it is assumed that the commutation of the generator phase currents takes place instantaneously. The results of the simulation are compared with test results. Both the calculated rms values and waveshapes of voltage and current show good agreement with test data."
"The speed of an induction motor in certain types of drives can be adjusted by phase control of the applied voltage. Three pairs of inverse-parallel thyristors are required for three-phase bipolar symmetry, but several different arrangements of the thyristors and motor windings are possible. A direct series connection of thyristors and windings in each phase can be made; the three phases can then be connected in delta, wye, or wye with neutral return. Alternatively, a delta connection of thyristor modules can be inserted in the opened neutral junction of wye-connected windings. Representation of the motor as a counter EMF in series with leakage reactance allows a simplified analysis of the current waveforms in terms of the thyristor conduction angle. With a given fundamental current, the current harmonics in the motor windings and in the supply lines for each of the circuits can then be compared. The results are equally applicable to thyristor-controlled inductive loads such as may be used for reactive power adjustment."
"Steady-state properties of a variable-speed drive using a synchronous motor fed by a controlled current-source inverter are derived from an equivalent circuit model, including saturation, and are confirmed by experiment. The system is shown to be stable under all operating conditions. Control strategy for open-loop operation is discussed."
"Analytical methods for the study of orthogonal-flux systems and parallel-flux systems are presented. The analyses are applied to study and compare orthogonal-flux and parallel-flux controllable inductors. It is found that the two systems have a great qualitative similarity but differ in the magnitudes of similar effects. This paper lays the ground work to be used in the study of parametric power converters or parametric voltage regulators to be presented in subsequent papers."
"A mathematical analysis of the orthogonal-flux voltage regulator explains three important properties of the regulator-the output waveform is independent of disturbances in the input waveform, the output voltage shuts off automatically under low line voltage, and the output voltage shuts off automatically under an overload. The output voltage will not tun on again unless the overload is removed and special action is taken to initiate the output. These properties result from parametric action in a ferroresonant circuit."
"An analysis of the parallel-flux parametric voltage regulator shows that it offers all the desirable characteristics of the orthogonal-flux parametric voltage regulator and that it offers several additional advantages. The most striking additional advantage is a much higher energy transfer capability, which implies higher efficiency in material utilization."
"Designing underground duct banks properly, in modern oil refineries and other industrial plants, requires the practical application of cable puling theory and design criteria. This paper presents all the cable pulling design equations and criteria necessary to design optimum economical underground conduit systems without causing damage or permanent distortion to the cables which will be pulled into the conduits."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
  "Geothermal energy may have much value for service other than electric generation. It may serve to energize refrigeration systems directly. After a review of methods, a design is proposed for a cooling module that may be operated where geothermal heat is available to reduce power use. A New Zealand unit now works."
"An IEEE sponsored reliability survey of industrial plants was completed during 1972. This survey included 30 companies covering a total of 68 industrial plants in the United States and Canada. Additional detailed results are reported on some data that were previously reported in the first three parts. This includes failure modes of circuit breakers, cost of power outages, critical service loss duration time, loss of motor load versus time of power outage, and the effect of failure repair method and repair urgency on the average downtime per failure of electrical equipment. This information is useful in the design of industrial power distribution systems."
"An IEEE sponsored reliability survey of industrial plants was completed during 1972. This survey included the plant climate, atmosphere, and operating schedule, the average age of electrical equipment, percent production lost, and the method of restoring electrical service after a failure. The results are reported from the survey of 30 companies covering 68 plants in nine industries in the United States and Canada. This information is useful in the design of industrial power distribution systems."
"An IEEE sponsored reliability survey of industrial plants was completed during 1972. This included maintenance quality, the frequency of schedule maintenance, and the failures caused by inadequate maintenance. The results are reported from the survey of 30 companies covering 68 plants in nine industries in the United States and Canada. This information is useful in the design of industrial power distribution systems."
"The American Petroleum Institute has issued API-RP541, ``Recommended practice for form-wound squirrel-cage induction motors, 200 hp and larger.'' The recommended practice is reviewed from the combined points of view of the petroleum industry user and of the motor designer who, in addition, participated in preparation of the practice. Important aspects of the electrical and mechanical design and characteristic requirements, insulation systems, and testing requirements, and areas for future work are covered from the user's viewpoint. The participation of the National Electrical Manufacturers' Association Motor and Generator Section, a detailed review and comparison of motor starting capability requirements, and comments on specific parts of the practice are presented from the motor designer's viewpoint."
"The high-frequency welding process, based on 450-kcal resistance heating and subsequent forge welding is shown to be a versatile, productive, and highly economical method of producing lightweight structural beams. A single high-frequency welding line can produce 4-to 18-in I or H beams with up to ⅜-in webs and ½-in flanges, in a single pass, from three coiled strips, in ferrous or nonferrous materials at production welding rates of 20 to 150 ft/min depending on high-frequency generator and system size. Beams can be produced interchangeably, in special section shapes, asymmetric or hybrid configurations, as well as ``standard'' sizes in improved form for increased section strength. Discussion includes process principles, metallurgical weld details and test results, production equipment description and capabilities, conversion costs, and significant market areas for high-frequency welded shapes."
"A correlation between the measured ionization energy V of gaseous atoms and the work function W of the corresponding metallic solids is presented as W ≅(½)V. This first-order relationship is explained on the basis of a simple electrostatic model involving image forces. The accuracy of the work functions calculated from this straightforward result is surprisingly good for most of the metallic elements."
"Three possible power control regulator for parallel resonant loads are considered. The steady state analysis and the merits of each regulator are given using continuously gated SCR's."
"In many fields of industrial interest, particle sampling and/or control is very important. However, the calibration and testing of sampling equipment have been difficult because of the lack of sources of uniform particles. In this paper a source of uniform solid or liquid particles is described together with the characteristics of the source and the particles produced. Fractional standard deviations of 10-3 in particle-size distribution are readily obtainable. The particles may be uncharged or charged to a predetermined level. Uses include the fields of aerosol sampling equipment testing, precipitator development and testing, as well as many others."
"Trials have been carried out to determine the efficacy and practicability of an electrostatic method of dusting crops. Using an 80-kV electrostatic generator and a motor-powered knapsack-type duster, pesticide particles have been charged by ionic bombardment, and good deposition has been achieved. Subsequent attempts to reduce the complexity and cost of the apparatus have resulted in the development of a ``triboelectrogasdynamic gun''-a novel device for electrostatic powder deposition. (Patent specifications have been filed.) This very simple device has produced an output electrode potential of 200 kV and is capable of effecting greater control over the deposition of macroscopic particles than would be practicable with conventional electrostatic devices. Applications are foreseen in both agricultural and industrial operations, though this paper deals mainly with the agricultural case."
"When sufficient thermal energy is available, the molecules cules of a gas are ionized at a rate that can significantly affect the operation of an electrostatic precipitator. At a given temperature, thermal effects may depend more on the presence of minority ionic species such as O- and the alkali metals than on the bulk constituents of the gas, and the electrical behavior of a precipitator will be strongly influenced by traces of such impurities. These effects may become noticeable even below 1500°F."
"The conventional theory for the charging of fine particles assumes that only ions are responsible for particle charging. Thus, the possibility of the presence of free electrons is neglected. Tests reported in this paper indicate that free electrons cannot be neglected and that these free electrons may be responsible for the abnormally high particle charge or mobility in negative corona near sparkover. In air it is assumed that oxygen molecules are primarily responsible for the attachment of free electrons to form negative ions. In stack gases where the percentage of oxygen is low, there may be other gas components that may tend to increase or decrease the percentage of free electrons. Measurements of particle mobility are made to study the effect of various gas components that may be of importance in stack gases."
 "Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "Presents the cover from the proceedings of this issue of the Transactions."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"SOME political pundits suggest that the energy crisis is a political conspiracy to cover up the other difficulties confronting the administration. Others suggest that it is a business conspiracy to drive up prices. There are still others who believe it to be the natural evolution of our affluent society. With headlines screaming of gasoline shortages natural gas restrictions, and heating oil allocations, is there any doubt that an energy crisis exists?"
"This paper indicates the market for a van-type electric vehicle, provides the physical description, and presents the electrical principle of operation of a frequency modulated and pulsewidth modulated power system applied to a 27-kW three-phase squirrelcage age induction motor. This ac drive system, which represents the third generation in design, has been placed in a Dodge B-300 high production van of 2700 kg gross vehicle weight. The electrical energy is stored in 24 6-V 220-Ah batteries providing 144 V. Design speeds of the electronics for the vehicle are up to 90 km/h. Computer developed power factor and efficiency curves are given for the motor for the entire range of operating speeds. Electrical charge in the batteries may be replaced either by quick interchange of batteries a or through utilization of a 12-kg on-board charger with an electrical demand of 6 kW from a 220-V single-phase main. Finally, the paper discusses the economics of the ac drive LinearVan."
"This paper briefly reviews the propulsion, auxiliary electrical, and miscellaneous electrical systems selected for use on the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District cars. It also discusses the general maintenance philosphies and future activities of the Rolling Stock and Shops Division in anticipation of full BART system operation."
"This paper will serve to acquaint the reader with general descriptive information about the Bay Area Rapid Transit District's electrical power distribution facilities serving its transit system. The paper describes the systems supplying power to both the fixed facilities and the traction vehicles but concentrates on the latter. Emphasis is placed on features that provide reliability and continuity of service."
"Several incidents had occurred on the Louisville & Nashville (L&N) Railroad where a dynamic gauge-widening tendency was believed to exist. To investigate this possibility, rail proximity sensors were mounted on a locomotive truck to measure track gauge under dynamic load. In association with the electronic system for gauge measurement, a paint spray system was installed which sprayed the track with a clearly visible line whenever gauge exceeds a predetermined threshold value. Using this equipment, track was inspected automatically at high speed and priority defects were automatically marked for immediate repair. The gauge measuring system consisted of a pair of capacitive sensors which respond to the gaps between the sensors and their corresponding rail heads. Continuous gauge data was recorded on a two-channel oscillograph. One channel was used to record track gauge and the other was used to denote location information via coded signals manually introduced by the system operator. Verification of system performance was carried out by measuring dynamic gauge-widening effects on a carefully instrumented curve and by performing comparative unloaded measurements over many miles of track. Gauge widening under dynamic loading was observed, and the existence of this effect was verified."
"The mathematical models and associated computer programs for analyzing a number of designs of overhead equipment such as simple catenary, compound catenary, stitched catenary, tunel equipment, and single-wire system, together with many possible variations are described. The programs are able to deal with up to four pantographs, and the initial conditions assumed are that the wires have their static equilibrium configurations and that the front pantograph is at the beginning of the first span touching the contact wire (or trolley wire) and moving tangentially to it. Any subsequent pantographs reach the beginning of the equipment after the start of the run and are then dealt with appropriately. The output of the programs list the input data, the total percentage contact loss between the panhead and contact wire in each span and the pantograph heights and contact forces at appropriate intervals of time. Graph plots of the pantograph heights and contact forces are also produced. The results of these programs are shown to give satisfactory agreement with previously published results obtained on a scaled model."
"Actual ground faults were applied to a high-resistance grounded 13.8-kV electrical distribution system supplying power to a large chemical plant. These tests show that such a system will restrict overvoltage transients and reduce damage to equipment under ground fault conditions. Such a system is inherently safer and more reliable than an ungrounded system and offers some operating features not possible with a low-resistance grounded system. The maximum overvoltage transient recorded during many ground faults, involving several different ground conditions imposed on the system during six hours of testing, was about 2000 V. The effect of these ground faults on the 13.8-kV electrical distribution system supplying an operating plant was negligible. In fact, the operating personnel, anticipating the worst, were not aware that the tests had been performed."
"Actual ground fault tests were conducted to determine the behavior of low-magnitude arcing ground faults in a closed air-filled 13.8-kV terminal chamber. Ground current magnitudes between 10 and 50 A were allowed to flow under various ground fault conditions. The tests that were performed support the value of high-resistance grounding to promote safety and reduce damage to equipment. At higher ground fault current levels the ionization of the air-filled chamber progresses at a rapid rate, and the arc is sustained or phase-to-phase faulting quickly occurs. The lower the ground fault current can be limited the less damage that occurs and the less possibility there is of creating a phase-to-phase fault. The practical consideration appears to be that if ground fault current can be limited to 10 A or less then initial ground faults will either clear themselves or create solid ground paths. This can allow the system to operate until an orderly shutdown procedure can be initiated."
"The problem of coordination of lamp, fixture, ballast, and final application of high wattage metal halide sources is addressed. It is our intent to clear up some common misconceptions about lamp lumens versus lamp position and to describe a coordinated luminaire system for use in sports lighting or other large area lighting."
"Because packaging equipment is a varied and diversified field, the applicable OSHA rules and regulations are equally diversified. Some regulations, such as those for platforms, stairs and ladders, airborne contaminants, handling Class I liquids, mechanical power presses, and bakery equipment, only apply in special cases. Other regulations, such as noise exposure, machine guarding, and electrical, are applicable to almost all types of packaging equipment. A brief discussion of the aforementioned regulations, along with some of the methods of compliance, is contained in the discussion."
"An uninterruptible ac supply system consisting of two power sources (static inverter and ac line) and a thyristor switch is presented. The thyristor switch is operated in such a way that the equalization current flow between the sources is prevented. Consequently continuous parallel operation of the sources may be applied. Faults in one of the sources do not affect the voltage supplied to the load. In order to obtain these features the trigger mode of the switch must meet certain requirements. The analysis of these requirements is given and an implementation of the system is presented. Test results are illustrated by oscillograms. The advantages of the system are that 1) load transfer is performed in an instantaneous and smooth way, 2) the system is able to deliver large inrush currents required by the load and to blow fuses in branch circuits of the load, and 3) no voltage monitors are required."
"In recent years the chopper circuit has been widely recognized as the most reliable and economical means of dc control. This work deals with a parallel possibility that uses ac inverters instead of chopper circuits. A detailed analysis is given for the bridge-type inverter. Some experimental results of this application for driving dc motors are presented."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and testing of a thyristorized speed control unit for a separately excited dc motor. The motor is fed from a three-phase six-pulse fully controlled thyristor bridge. A speed loop with a proportional plus integral controller maintains the desired speed irrespective of the load variations on the motor. An inner current control loop protects the thyristors from overcurrents. This loop also provides fast response overcoming the effect of disturbances such as variations in supply voltage. The design aspects of the control loops are discussed, and experimental results are given."
"At the present state of the control art, it is economical to replace dc motors in servo systems with ac synchronous and induction motors, in spite of the generally more complex circuitry induction motors, in spite of the generally more complex circuitry required by the ac principle. This report deals with synchronous motors that rely on shaft position reference to fit them into high-performance position feedback systems. It is shown analytically that any synchronous motor, including the reluctance motor, becomes a direct replacement for a converter driven dc motor if the phase voltages are the result of properly modulated shaft resolver outputs."
"The use of integral-cycle conduction of power appears to be useful for resistive load control, especially in heating applications. Uniform control sensitivity may be obtained over the whole power range if the controller has a fixed ON plus OFF time with variable ON/OFF ratio. The incremental load power controllable is proportional to the number of ON plus OFF supply cycles constituting a control period. Rectifier integral-cycle pulses of current were obtained from a single-phase supply using a pair of inverse-parallel connected thyristors and a diode bridge. This particular form of pulsewidth modulation was used for speed control of a fractional horsepower series dc motor on both open loop and closed loop. Steady-state characteristics in terms of mean current and mean speed were identical with those obtained from conventional dc supply. For high-speed low-torque operation there was little speed ripple and smooth, quiet motor performance was obtained. To obtain low speeds, the ON/OFF mark space ratio of the current was less than unity and the intermittent conduction caused speed ripple with motor noise and vibration."
"A new electrical control for electrostatic precipitators is discussed. The control uses silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR's) and analog electronic networks for rapid response to sparking and changing gas and dust conditions."
"Theoretical techniques of voltage control for the half-bridge and full-bridge inverters are derived based on the results in [1]. Detailed analytical results for the symmetrical pulsewidth modulation method of voltage control are also presented. Voltage control techniques are derived whereby harmonic elimination is possible in variable-frequency variable-voltage three-phase inverter circuits. The technique for the half-bridge inverter is optimized subject to the constraint of switching frequency of the SCR's, using the concepts of modern control theory. Variable-frequency variable-voltage sinusoidal output in three-phase inverters is possible by employing the techniques developed. The methods show great promise in application to variable-speed ac motor drive systems."
  "Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
  "This paper describes three new control strategies for the discontinuous control of electric space heating processes. Discontinuous controllers are invariably used for such processes in order to reduce the cost of control. The disadvantages of such systems are the large overshoots and undershoots, large periods of oscillation, and offset errors. The first strategy utilizing an ON-OFF controller with derivative feedback is shown to minimize the magnitude of oscillations, the period of oscillation, and offset errors. The second strategy utilizes a three-position controller with derivative feedback. Besides eliminating oscillations and offset errors, the controller enables a time optimal start-up of the process. By minimizing the deadzone in the controller, sensitivity to disturbances is increased. A simple method of designing such a controller is also indicated. The third strategy utilizes a pulsewidth modulated (PWM) controller for processes where power is available either at its maximum rating or no power at all. By a proper choice of the parameters, it is shown that the magnitude of oscillations and the period of oscillation can be controlled by the designer. Offset error is completely eliminated, indicating a more effective utilization of power. All the three strategies described require only a minor modification of the existing controllers; the resulting improvement in performance is expected to compensate the slight increase in cost of control. The mathematical derivations involved in the design and analysis of such controllers have deliberately avoided, since the presentation is specifically intended for practicing engineers."
"The majority of published literature on system dynamics of space heating assumes that the constants in the exponential models for heating (active) and cooling (passive) are equal. Reports by Roots and his co-workers show that in one form of space heating the active and passive constants are not equal. This paper presents data from rigidly controlled experiments in an environmental test room under three forms of space heating. Active and passive time constants are reported for baseboard heating, ceiling cable heating, and forced air heating. Explanations are advanced for differences noted."
"This new equipment standard replaces one published in 1948. Significant improvements in the new equipment include a larger test chamber more suitable for testing line voltage electric heat thermostats and a chamber that operates in normal room ambient rather than 40°F. The equipment consists of an insulated test chamber in which air flow across a thermostat test wall is maintained at 30 ft/min. Adjacent to the chamber is an instrument panel which contains the appropriate control systems. These controls record, program, and provide electrical loads for testing specified thermostat characteristics. During performance testing, the test chamber air temperature is automatically increased or decreased at preselected rates upon demand of the test thermostat. Thermostat characteristics observed during testing are 1) operating differential- difference in temperature between cut-in and cut-out of the thermostat, 2) cycle rate-number of full cycles per hour, and 3) effective operating droop-difference in cut-in points when operating at 20 and 80 percent duty cycle. The results of the new equipment provide a uniform method of testing room thermostats and therefore consistent means for comparing one thermostat performance to another under many different conditions."
"In-space electric heating systems, such as baseboard, ceiling cable, wall fan, and radiant panel heaters, are customarily controlled by line-voltage or low-voltage thermostats. Tests show that the overall performance of such a heating system is significantly affected by the choice of thermostat used. Recent tests have shown that solid-state controls applied to such heaters can provide improved heating system performance. This paper presents performance test data whereby the performance characteristics of the various heating systems may be compared."
"A properly designed residential heating system must provide homeowner comfort under a broad range of operating conditions. Doing this with an economically priced system requires knowledge of the many variables affecting system performance. A typical heating system including the house, furnace, heat conveyance, and thermostatic control has been simulated on an analog computer facility. By varying computer inputs to reflect changing outdoor weather conditions, house construction, type of heating plant, and occupancy, system performance with different types of controls can be readily evaluated. This type of computer analysis facilitates early consideration of component design variations aimed at achieving optimum performance with minimum cost."
"Central electric heating systems typically consist of a number of low-mass heating elements. Due to this low mass, fast rates of temperature rise and fall will occur in the furnace. The end result can be large and uncomfortable temperature swings in the living space. In order to provide good comfort, the control system used must take into account the characteristics of an electric furnace. An analog computer study was conducted to determine the best method of controlling an electric central heating system. The analog computer optimized the thermostat design parameters to provide the required end result of homeowner comfort and long heat equipment life. Since mechanical thermostats have practical limitations on minimum switching differentials and only solid-state electronics could overcome this difficulty, the computer optimized controller was built using integrated circuit electronics. A field test compared the performance of a conventional ON-OFF mechanical thermostat system with the new solid-state controller. The conventional system produced excessive room temperature swings of 3°F, while the new controller produced small swings of less than 1°F."
"Performance of a heating system depends on the interrelationship of its component parts. One measure of performance is the cyclic room air temperature swings. This paper presents results of analog computer tests of the predominant factors influencing such air temperature swings: design capacity of the heating system, time constant of the heater, the space itself and furnishings, and the thermostat cycling rate. Also considered is the influence of the heating system on the control air temperature droop."
"It is becoming the standard both to heat and to cool occupied space in buildings. Electricity is used almost universally for cooling, and increasingly it is also used to heat. The integration of these loads with other power requirements is supplied by the utility. The magnitude and profile of the load determines the facilities needed by the utility. This paper supplies considerable data on the characteristics of electric heating and cooling loads. Due to the large internal heat gain of most commercial buildings, cooling must be supplied during relatively low outside temperatures. Correspondingly, heating is necessary over a relatively narrow temperature range. This factor results in considerable diversity between these loads and the utility system load. This diversity varies with both the hours of the day and days of the week. The geographic location and the magnitude of system heating and cooling loads will determine how representative the data presented are for any specific area. 37190."
"This paper discusses observations on electric steam and hot-water boilers. The increased popularity of both steam and hot water generation by electricity is readily apparent. The advantages of this type of heat generation lend themselves to many current applications in the heating, ventilating, and air conditioning field. Sizes of boilers have been increasing through the years, with no apparent end in sight due to the accelerated development of the electrode boiler, which will be covered in detail in the second part of the paper. As compared to the resistance type of boiler, this latter design permits economical projection into much larger boiler sizes. Electric boiler installation is relatively simple since there is no concern with chimneys or fuel storage. Often the boiler room can be eliminated and the mechanical equipment room serve as the required space. Electric boiler operation can be automated to the point where an operator is virtually unnecessary with the many control options available today. Integration of the boiler into heat recovery and solar energy systems has also accelerated the growth of this product. As might be expected, due to the simplicity of boiler construction and accessories, electric boiler maintenance is at a minimum. However, certain areas of additional control must be exercised since unique problems can develop with electric steam and hot water generation. The paper is illustrated with pictures of actual installations and case histories covering the gamut of specification, installation, and successful operation."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the use of a minicomputer in an integrated track inspection program. The basic elements of such a program include the measuring vehicle, data reduction process, and presentation of data to the various management levels. The paper describes such a system which has been in use on the Southern Railway for over five years and points out desirable changes, problems, and economics."
"The results are given of an investigation into the production and electrostatic precipitation of combustion nuclei by an electrified propane-air flame. The apparatus consisted of a burner with a dc potential applied which was supported inside a grounded metal combustion chamber where the generation and removal of particles could be studied. A mathematical and experimental analysis of transient combustion nuclei concentrations inside the combustion chamber was carried out to evaluate the nuclei precipitation and production rates as a function of flame potentials and air flow rates. Two new theoretical equations containing production, precipitation, and flow parameters are derived to describe these transient concentrations. The constants of the equations were determined by experiment. These lead directly to the important parameters of nuclei production and precipitation rates, which are difficult to assess individually using previously known techniques. The experiments show that the concentration of combustion nuclei in the exhaust gas can be significantly decreased by the simple electrification of the flame. For combustion processes that generate aerosols, the method has the advantage of using the flame itself to affect the removal of the particles from the exhaust gases. Since combustion nuclei are receiving increased attention as air pollutants, this study could have important practical applications."
"A new three-phase inverter circuit is described and analyzed for the condition of an inductive load. The circuit does not require an auxiliary supply or any auxiliary thyristors to assist commutation. All commutation capacitors are placed across the dc side but are used in the same way as capacitors that are normally used for ac side commutation. The output voltage of the inverter is a quasi sine wave controlled by a simple firing circuit. The author was a visiting Research Fellow with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics, the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology, Manchester, England."
"The paper refers to thyristor ac to dc converters for industrial applications, nonreversing and reversing, in full-controlled three-phase bridge connection, as used for armature supply of dc motors and excitation of large ac generators. The possible causes of incorrect operation as well as the types of fault currents produced are investigated; the means available to interrupt or limit the value and the duration of these fault currents are recalled. Having in mind the performance required from the protective means in the various practical applications, a few different protection classes are defined. The criteria are then illustrated upon which selection of the protective means and their operating logic is based, in order to reach the targets put forward for each class of protection."
"The cycloconverter provides a novel means for the speed control of a wound-rotor machine. When the wound-rotor machine is coupled to a large flywheel and the cycloconverter is used for control, the effects of cyclic loads on an ac power system can be compensated by ``pumping'' energy into and out of the flywheel."
"A developmental single-element induction range appliance with a smooth-surface ceramic cooktop is described. The appliance demonstrates the versatility of induction cooking and characteristic features of safety, cleanliness, high efficiency, and rapid response. Tests indicate that performance surpasses that of conventional range elements of equal power input. The circuit is designed to achieve minimum cost. A self-excited SCR inverter operates near 22 kHz to produce a sinusoidal magnetic field for heating. Full rectified line voltage is applied at all power levels to avoid the need for dc-to-dc conversion. Power is stepwise controlled over a wide range by switching capacitance in the RF circuit. Contact arcing is prevented by turning off power between switch positions. Full load power is 1600 W at a line voltage of 120 V. Input power decreases to a low standby level when no cooking utensil is on the cooktop. The appliance includes a pan temperature control. Infrared (IR) energy emanating from the pan bottom passes through the cool IR transmissive cooktop to a simple detection system which actuates the inverter to hold pan temperature within a few percent of a selected level from 70°C to 175°C."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
  "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "It is prognosed that the next phase of advancement in automation, the repetitive production of discrete products, will involve development of new sensors and new uses for old but fast sensors, analogous to the development of sensors for fluid process control two human generations ago and for web processes in the last 20 years. Typical process steps are characterized and examples are given of the kinds of sensors and uses envisioned. Tie-in to computer control is often appropriate but relatively seldom mandatory. The key control feature is high resolution feedback to the process, whether done by analog or digital methods. Both new, fast, and accurate sensors and new, fast, and accurate and powerful actuators must be developed, but the actuators would be useless without the sensors having been developed first. In many cases, suitable economic need and justification already exist, but technology is lacking; this, therefore, is a practical challenge to the engineering profession and to relatively small businesses which can afford to innovate in these modest cost devices for initially limited markets."
"This paper describes an automatic control system for the start up and shut down of a 415V., 100kW. mains frequency plasma torch which has been developed [1] at the University of Aston in Birmingham. Instrumentation of the main input and output parameters is provided from a centrally-located panel."
"It is prognosed that the next phase of advancement in automation, the repetitive production of discrete products, will involve development of new sensors and new uses for old but fast sensors, analogous to the development of sensors for fluid process control two human generations ago and for web processes in the last 20 years. Typical process steps are characterized and examples are given of the kinds of sensors and uses envisioned. Tie-in to computer control is often appropriate but relatively seldom mandatory. The key control feature is high resolution feedback to the process, whether done by analog or digital methods. Both new, fast, and accurate sensors and new, fast, and accurate and powerful actuators must be developed, but the actuators would be useless without the sensors having been developed first. In many cases, suitable economic need and justification already exist, but technology is lacking; this, therefore, is a practical challenge to the engineering profession and to relatively small businesses which can afford to innovate in these modest cost devices for initially limited markets."
"This paper describes an automatic control system for the start up and shut down of a 415V., 100kW. mains frequency plasma torch which has been developed [1] at the University of Aston in Birmingham. Instrumentation of the main input and output parameters is provided from a centrally-located panel. In view of the large power to be controlled, it is essential that the cooling water and electrical supplies are switched in the correct order both when starting up and shutting down, and the protection requirements necessitate ``fail-safe'' operation of the control gear under fault conditions. This automatic operation represents a significant improvement upon the original control system, which was manually operated. A closed-loop control of the outlet temperature by regulating the air flow is described elsewhere [2]. Measurements of the efficiency of the torch in converting electrical energy to heat have also been published [3]."
"A high-frequency bridge inverter with series-parallel compensated load is analyzed. The effect of Cs and Ls on circuit turn-off time, SCR voltage and di/dt rating is discussed. A number of nomograms are presented and their use in the choice of the circuit components is discussed."
"A basic design using time division multiplexing principles is reported for telemetering some measurements in a remote water-pumping station. A total number of twelve channels is provided and the bandwidth per channel is 300 Hz working from dc upwards. The discussion is emphasized on simple but adequate design techniques using inexpensive components. For the sake of clarity, only unconventional circuits used for multiplexing and de-multiplexing are described in detail, other more well-known building blocks being referred to the literature. The system has undergone extensive tests in the laboratory and its general performance is satisfactory and not affected by considerable fluctuation in sampling rate or power supply voltage. The de-multiplexing receiver also has the special characteristic that it can be made to scan continuously over every time-slot to select any channel in the system as desired, providing a time-domain equivalent to continuous tuning in the frequency-domain, a property particularly useful for testing TDM sources."
"Machines whose functioning is dependant upon inputs and previous states can be controlled by a system that performs a series of compare and test operations only to determine the output states. For efficient operation such a system is directly linked to the input/output functions in the machine. At each step the controller decides to turn on/off, or do nothing to an output function. Its decision comes from machine inputs, operating mode and the correct time instant in the machine cycle. The comparison results decide the operation of the machine. Since the system has a memory it can be programmed for different functions and cause the machine which it controls to work differently. This programmability makes the controller similar to a computer. However, its main difference from a general computer is the few kinds of operations it is designed to perform. To be competitive with mini-computers in this application, the controller should be programmable; to compete with other implementations it must be cheaper to manufacture. A programmable digital controller for a Xerox Color Copying Machine is described. It is shown how the above concepts were reduced to hardware that was subsequently successfully demonstrated."
"This paper describes the design, construction and testing of a controlled timing switch suitable for introducing balanced and unbalanced faults of controlled duration at predetermined instants on laboratory-size machine systems. The work is part of a final year Project Laboratory course and was completed during a period of six weeks. The switch employs a simple force-commutated thyristor arrangement with easy to maintain and reliable components. There is a discussion on the switch design including some guidelines for the choice of components for the switch. The factors to be considered in the use of thyristors when they are used for switching operations are detailed. Results of some typical tests on a 3 kVa, 208/120 volt, 60 Hz synchronous machine system using the switch, are also included."
"A microcomputer system is described which serves as a preprocessor/postprocessor for analog signals which are processed by a minicomputer. Both hardware and software characteristics are discussed."
"A transistorized method for the voltage regulation of low and medium capacity alternators using shunt-type exciters is discussed."
"The input high-current low-pass filter of a power conversion equipment usually has high starting current. This paper demonstrates how with the help of a resistor (R) and a Zenerdiode (Uz) one can suppress the starting current. Optimal values of these components are calculated and verified by an experiment."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem with programmable controllers is that there are so many on the market today. It is very difficult to make a choice on the basis of sales literature, because the advantages and problems are not obvious. It is the intent of this paper, therefore, to examine some of the characteristics of the various programmable controllers and see how they compare for different applications."
"In critical applications requiring use of a brushless dc motor, the electronics designer is faced with a complex problem. The motor typically has at least five independent parameters that must be specified properly to obtain the best performance. The gear ratio must be selected, and in addition, several parameters in the electronic commutation and control circuitry must be optimized."
"The optimum dc dynamic braking control here implies that, at all the speeds, the motor is operated at peak torque point. This can be achieved by controlling the rotor resistance of an induction motor such that the peak torque occurs at the speed at which the motor is running. The optimum control permits the stopping of a load in a minimum time with minimum heating of the motor and therefore is useful where very frequent and quick stops are needed. The present paper is concerned with the optimum dc dynamic braking control using rotor rectifier cascade feeding a resistance whose effective value is controlled by controlling the ON to OFF time ratio of a thyristor chopper connected in parallel with it. It is shown that the use of this scheme permits the realization of a theoretically expected performance."
"The problem with programmable controllers is that there are so many on the market today. It is very difficult to make a choice on the basis of sales literature, because the advantages and problems are not obvious. It is the intent of this paper, therefore, to examine some of the characteristics of the various programmable controllers and see how they compare for different applications."
"In critical applications requiring use of a brushless dc motor, the electronics designer is faced with a complex problem. The motor typically has at least five independent parameters that must be specified properly to obtain the best performance. The gear ratio must be selected, and in addition, several parameters in the electronic commutation and control circuitry must be optimized. In this paper the basic control problem is described, the appropriate equations are derived, and a systematic method is outlined for arriving at an optimum configuration. It immediately becomes apparent that all applications and possible motor types cannot be covered by the same analysis. However, the results of this paper should be useful in most small motor applications in which the motor speeds are sufficiently low that motor winding inductance can either be neglected or compensated simply by advancing the drive pulse phase as described."
"The optimum dc dynamic braking control here implies that, at all the speeds, the motor is operated at peak torque point. This can be achieved by controlling the rotor resistance of an induction motor such that the peak torque occurs at the speed at which the motor is running. The optimum control permits the stopping of a load in a minimum time with minimum heating of the motor and therefore is useful where very frequent and quick stops are needed. The present paper is concerned with the optimum dc dynamic braking control using rotor rectifier cascade feeding a resistance whose effective value is controlled by controlling the ON to OFF time ratio Of a thyristor chopper connected in parallel with it. It is shown that the use of this scheme permits the realization of a theoretically expected performance."
"The function of an automatic profile cutter is to cut from the work material a replica, possibly scaled, of a given shape. The profile may be available as an ink outline drawing or a template. There are two functions involved in the process: one is the following of the outline of the shape. The other is the positioning and control of the cutting tool. A digital system employing stepper motors as position transducers has been developed to perform the required functions. The use of rate multipliers followed by simple smoothing greatly simplifies the implementation of the system. Digital system has a stable characteristic with respect to the outline to be followed as well as to extraneous disturbances. Reproducibility of the cut profile has been enhanced and the tedious task of ``tuning up,'' necessary for reliable operation of the analog counterpart, has been entirely removed. An external digital storage device such as a cassette tape unit can easily be incorporated into the system. This permits the following of an outline drawing at an optimum speed and the subsequent regeneration of the information at any speed to drive the cutter."
"The problem of increasing the resolution of discrete optical sensors in information systems is considered. The proposed method uses an overlapping scan and multilevel quantization. The samples thus obtained are processed by a minimum mean square estimator utilizing the pseudoinverse of the transformation matrix. The method is illustrated by a 4/1 enhancement of an 8 × 8 resolution grid. Experimental results are presented."
"The brushless dc servomotor described consists of two basic components: 1) a brushless dc motor unit featuring a permanent magnet rotor with Hall effect devices for sensing rotor position, and 2) an electronic control package. One important feature of the control package was a nonlinear operational amplifier circuit which eliminated control input deadband and supplied a negative feedback control signal derived from the back emf of the stator windings. The result was a unit with torque versus speed characteristics which very nearly approximate those of the ideal servomotor; an evenly spaced family of negatively sloped straight lines."
"A novel application of an open-ended microwave cavity in the field of on-line nuclear instrumentation, specifically to the determination of the void fraction in organic coolants used for cooling nuclear reactors, is presented. The sensor consists of a section of circular waveguide inserted in series with the piping system transporting the coolant. For the selected frequency of operation, the sensor section forms a resonant cavity whose resonant frequency, being a measure of the void fraction, can be automatically and continuously monitored by an electronic system."
"It is shown in this paper that it is possible to derive generalized equations for computation of electrical circuits containing SCR elements. Any classical method of circuit analysis can be used applying the nonlinear mathematical model given for the SCR. In order to get this model, a binary logic state variable is doped to the equation which is obtained by a Boolean function. The derivation of this mathematical model and the application of the method to an impulse-commutated inverter with an RL load are presented."
"Three different mathematical models of an armature-controlled dc motor are considered: (i) a precise nonlinear model, (ii) a piecewise linear model, and (iii) a second-order linear model. Experimental results are presented comparing the various models, and a range of applications for each is suggested."
"A beam of He-Ne laser light will, on encountering a two-phase fluid menisci, be deflected from its normal straight line path by up to 90 degrees. This is caused by an effective liquid prism synthesized by the liquid menisci bifurcation contour. This phenomena can be used to good effect in sensitive liquid volume measurements. Volume measurement sensitivities of the order of 0.0001 percent or better are achievable. Applications include menisci position sensing in the calibration of scientific glassware, eliminating the use of expensive and dangerous mercury. Calibration accuracies can be increased by three to four times over that given by existing techniques. Precision volume reliquification of freeze dried biological samples, by laser marking at the original liquid level, can enhance the accuracy of clinical test results by eliminating a major source of technician error."
"A design is reported for a fast time positional control system of third order which has two modes of operation; a first bang-bang mode operates until the position is close to target, followed by a second linear feedback mode which gives asymptotic stability. The design is applicable to situations in which the positional state is to be moved repeatedly among a finite set of target positions. The switch times for the first mode are selected to minimize the time to reach the mode boundary plus a terminal penalty which is the settling time of the second mode. In the example given, the response time using this controller is compared with the optimal time to the target, and with the response time of equivalent saturating proportional control."
"A nonmechanical, completely electronic scheme for measuring the instantaneous electrically developed shaft torque of electrical machines is proposed. The method, which can be applied to all conditions of operation and all types of electrical machines, utilizes the two basic laws: T = Kiψ and ψ = ∫(e - ri) dt."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "Evaluating the true worth of computers as applied to assembly machines is a valid quest. Assuming computers have a place in the world of assembly machines, several questions naturally arise and should be pondered: In what areas are they applicable and why?; What is the real worth of computers to assembly machine systems?; What are some of the major conclusions to remember in their application?"
"In this paper it is demonstrated that by imaging and studying the recombination radiation emitted by an operating power transistor, much useful information about the current distribution can be obtained in a routine manner. This information includes a semi-quantitative measure of the degree current crowding to one region of the pellet as a result of voltage losses in the metallization and thermal gradients, the effectiveness of the ballasting in preventing both thermally stable current crowding and hot spot formation, and the degree of crowding toward the edge of the emitter as a result of resistive losses in the base under the emitter. In general this detailed information cannot be obtained by any other method, and is very useful to device engineers in improving power transistor design."
"Active and passive infrared nondestructive testing (IRNDT) techniques were investigated to determine their limitations and potential military applications. Active IRNDT methods involved the use of various techniques, in which radiation from a conventional infrared heat lamp and a CO2 laser were used to heat a specimen. In these methods, a scanning infrared radiometer and an infrared camera were used to detect thermal anomalies that were indicative of surface and near-surface programmed flaws. Passive IRNDT investigations involved the development and evaluation of a miniaturized high-speed infrared radiometer which can be used to inspect the interior surface of a gun tube or other inaccessible surfaces that are difficult to inspect with more conventional instrumentation. Each of the IRNDT methods investigated have particular advantages associated with their use. The best method for a particular application, however, must be determined by consideration of the physical, geometry, meterial, and mass of the object being investigated."
"Evaluating the true worth of computers as applied to assembly machines is a valid quest. Assuming computers have a place in the world of assembly machines, several questions naturally arise and should be pondered: In what areas are they applicable and why?; What is the real worth of computers to assembly machine systems?; What are some of the major conclusions to remember in their application? A1l of the above questions are discussed and case histories cited to provide some answers. With assembly machines becoming more complex, end users need all the help they can get in understanding what machine performance really is and how it can be improved. Computer monitoring is a tool which can aid considerably in this task."
"In this paper it is demonstrated that by imaging and studying the recombination radiation emitted by an operating power transistor, much useful information about the current distribution can be obtained in a routine manner. This information includes a semi-quantitative measure of the degree current crowding to one region of the pellet as a result of voltage losses in the metallization and thermal gradients, the effectiveness of the ballasting in preventing both thermally stable current crowding and hot spot formation, and the degree of crowding toward the edge of the emitter as a result of resistive losses in the base under the emitter. In general this detailed information cannot be obtained by any other method, and is very useful to device engineers in improving power transistor design."
"Active and passive infrared nondestructive testing (IRNDT) techniques were investigated to determine their limitations and potential military applications. Active IRNDT methods involved the use of various techniques, in which radiation from a conventional infrared heat lamp and a CO2 laser were used to heat a specimen. In these methods, a scanning infrared radiometer and an infrared camera were used to detect thermal anomalies that were indicative of surface and near-surface programmed flaws. Passive IRNDT investigations involved the development and evaluation of a miniaturized high-speed infrared radiometer which can be used to inspect the interior surface of a gun tube or other inaccessible surfaces that are difficult to inspect with more conventional instrumentation. Each of the IRNDT methods investigated have particular advantages associated with their use. The best method for a particular application, however, must be determined by consideration of the physical, geometry, material, and mass of the object being investigated."
"The measurement of radiation (ultra-violet, visible, or infrared) from a surface as a means of knowing the surface temperature has been found useful in many applications. One of the simpler types of instruments which uses this principle is a brightness pyrometer. The brightness pyrometer relates radiation to temperature on the basis of radiation magnitude, which is a function of temperature, but the output of the brightness pyrometer is also a function of a material property known as emissivity. While many brightness pyrometers have compensation control for different values of emissivity, knowing the emissivity constant is left for the user to find through such aids as handbooks of materials and physics texts. Even then, the emissivity may vary as a function of the particular chemical content and environment to which the material is subjected. Hence, Raytheon felt there was a need for a device to measure emissivity simultaneously with other radiation measurements and within a fraction of the time span used by the heating process."
"Evaluations were made using an infrared nondestructive testing technique employing scan laser heating of the specimen. Thermal images were obtained with a newly developed two dimensional reflective scanner coupled to a 50 watt CO2 laser to irradiate the specimen and a thermal imaging camera to view the specimens irradiated surface. The technique shows a capability of providing a real-time nondestructive test for subsurface defects in a variety of materials and structures. It allows the laser heat source and infrared camera to be remotely positioned on the same side of the specimen under test making it possible to examine large specimens."
"The conventional method to professional growth has been to climb up a commercial ladder by mostly hard work. Individuals need to be able to change from one ladder to another thus making their own opportunities for professional growth. Hard working geographic areas like Los Angeles, Boston, Houston, and Cleveland, to name a few, have made it possible for technical people to change ladders with very little rung position changes. This conference record can save time, generate ideas, solve your problems, cut your cost, build your expertise, and allow you to change ladders if necessary to achieve professional growth, build financial opportunities, and be successful."
"The serious student of Process Control must recognize that one important facet of his education is the development of the mathematical sophistication required for him to approach the subject creatively. The transform methods commonly used in the solution of a control problem convert the dynamic analytical structure (differential equation) used to describe all dynamic processes into static algebraic relationships. The use of transform method is necessary to simplify the mechanics of the control problem solution procedure. But, the student must not lose sight of the fact that the tools developed for the analysis and design of process control systems have their origin in the dynamic analytical structure used to describe the control problem and not the algebraic structure used to simplify the solution procedure. The above discussion will be illustrated by reviewing, some of the basic concepts of process control. The discussion in this tutorial paper will be limited to processes described. by linear ordinary constant coeffcient differential equations."
"Transistorized alternating current servomechanism design offers a number of advantages over other types because of their small size, low weight, high reliability, precision accuracy, and wide range of control. These lecture notes describe a cryogenic oxygen flow control servomechanism subsystem typical for an auxiliary power unit fuel system. Three possible types of feedback for this type of subsystem are: position feedback accomplished by gear tiain and synchro-transformer, position with velocity feedback accomplished by adding a rate generator and position feedback with compensating network. Servomechanisms employing any of these three types of subsystems can provide the oxygen flow control desired. The differences in performance relate primarily to steadiness of flow with the companion heat modulation. The damping ratio parameter can be used to achieve a reasonable response time and maintain a reasonable value for overshoot. Low damping ratio gives fast response but large overshoots. High damping ratios give low overshoot but slow response. This paper discusses transistorized servomechanism design for the basic position servo, plus rate feedback or network compensation. Included are design and application considerations, step-by-step design procedures, and the solution to sample design examples"
"This paper deals with the problem of selecting controllers and control valves for some of the most common chemical process control systems. Because a dynamic analysis can seldom be justified for most control systems, it is important to have some general rules for controller and control valve selection. An attempt will be made to present such general recommendations for flow, level, pressure and temperature control systems."
"This paper is intended to serve as an introductory reading for practicing control engineers with little or no background in sampling theory. The topics are introduced in a non-rigorous manner utilizing many examples. Some important terminologies of sampling theory are explained. Basic statistical techniques important to control engineers are discussed in two parts. The first part involves the mean while the second part deals with the variance. Some ``quick and dirty'' methods together with some ``standard'' techniques are presented. An example of a particular application is also included."
"The equations required for analyzing the performance of imperfectly coupled transformers in dc-to-dc conversion applications are described. Results are shown for both the untuned and the tuned primary cases. Given the output power requirements and a reasonable set of limitations on the transformer parameters, the optimum transformer parameters can be detennined. An example is given of the optimization procedure used in designing the transcutaneous transformer for electric artificial heart applications."
"The problem of estimating the state of a linear system over a finite time interval in the presence of noise is considered. The expected value of the integral of the quadratic error is taken as the performance index. A configuration of the same type as the Kaiman filter is assumed with the restriction that the gain must be constant. An integral equation is obtained as a necessary condition for the gain to be optimum, and an iterative procedure is suggested for its solution. Numerical results indicate that this filter can be significantly more accurate than one utilizing the steady-state gain of the Kalman filter."
"The supply of electrical power to small, remote situations is usually carried out by means of a two-wire, single-phase connection. Frequently, this remote situation is developed and the electrical power consumption increases significantly. Not only is there an increased overall demand on this service, but the provision of three-phase supplies to run electric motors also becomes highly desirable. The considerable expense of laying extra lines to carry the three phases could be avoided if a single to three-phase conversion system were readily available. This paper describes such a conversion system using silicon controlled rectifiers in straightforward switching roles. Test results on laboratory induction motors indicate that there is little difference in performance when fed from this system and when fed from the appropriate sinusoidal supplies. Data for the construction of a harmonic filter are included for applications when the raw, switched voltage waveform may be unacceptable."
"A new mathematical model for permanent-magnet stepping motors is proposed which takes into account the effect of the saliency of the poles. A comparison of the predictions based on this model is made with those based on the earlier models and the specifications of the manufacturers. The results show that the new model is much more accurate and more suitable for applications in computer control."
"Peak-holding control offers a simple and inexpensive method whereby operation of a certain class of processes may be kept in the region of optimum performance. The design of an electronic peak-holding controller is described in this paper, and techniques for analyzing its behavior are presented. The possible occurrence of spurious (false) peaks being detected by the controller is demonstrated and a method of both predicting and preventing this peak detection phenomenon is developed. Application of the controller in optimizing the feed rate to a simulated pebble mill grinder is presented."
"The paper deals with the bidirectional speed control of a split-field dc series motor by commutating the two fields alternately to the supply using SCR switches. The whole system is simulated on an analog computer to investigate the effect of system parameters on its static and dynamic performances. Optimum values for the components of the control circuit are also suggested."
"It is well known that magnetic-coupled monostable multivibrators have isolated and high-power outputs. These multivibrators which have been presented so far employ the operation of the major hysteresis loop. In these multivibrators, however, the output pulsewidth cannot be controlled over wide ranges and is severely influenced by variations in the source voltage. These problems can be solved by using the operation of the minor hysteresis loop and an R-C network to determine the pulsewidth. In this circuit, the output pulsewidth and the magnitude of output voltage can be controlled independently. The pulsewidth is expressed as T0 = CR In 2 until the magnetic core is saturated and easily adjusted by making either the resistor or capacitor variable. The magnitude of output voltage can be varied by the winding ratio and by the source voltage. A maximum-to-minimum pulsewidth ratio can be extended to about 1000. This value is 100 greater than that of the circuit employing the operation of the major hysteresis loop. The linearity error of the R-T0 characteristics is less than ± 0.1 percent. Its load characteristics are much better than those of conventional transistor multivibrators. The stability for the change of the source voltage is reduced to 0.06 percent/V over the range 4 to 12 V."
"A typical high performance phase-locked capstan speed control system of an analog instrumentation magnetic tape recorder/reproducer is analyzed. Attention is given to component parameter variations, particularly in the dc motor-capstantachometer assembly. A detailed model of the electro-mechanical components of the tape moving system is developed and is adjusted using comparisons of the transfer function calculations and experimental closed loop measurements for a range of parameter values."
"To overcome the limitations of the SCR turn-off time, time-sharing principle is utilized in high frequency bridge inverters. Such an inverter circuit is analyzed. Triggering frequency requirements are discussed. Criterion for the choice of series compensating capacitor is presented. In addition, a number of nomograms are presented and their use in the circuit design is discussed."
"This letter describes a generalized method for obtaining both temperature-to-frequency and temperature-to-time conversion by means of thermistor circuit and conventional linear voltage-to-frequency and voltage-to-tune converters."
"Proposed is a transistor circuit connection in the field circuit of a dc shunt motor to give an automatic and simultaneous increase of the field current (while the motor load is coming up), at a rate sufficient for demonstrating a speed-load characteristic similar to that obtainable from a dc series motor."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Expressions for the dc components of the field and armature currents of a SCR controlled split-field dc series motor are obtained in terms of the parameters of the motor and of the control circuitry. The linearized transfer function of the motor system is derived for small control signal. The result obtained analytically is compared with that obtained from an analog computer simulation study of the motor."
"A bridge inverter circuit with series tuned load is analyzed. The criterion for triggering frequency range is derived. Design considerations for the SCR and the tuning capacitor ratings are discussed."
"The methods of handling small signals from multi-decade sensors are discussed. A simple, fast and accurate preprocessing amplification unit (PPU) with the capabilities of automatic gain switching is presented. The unit could be used in the analog channels of a computer based data acquisition and process control system. The use of such a unit with some of the analog sensors would increase the resolution of the measuring subsystem involved through the combined action of a shared analog-to-digital converter (ADC). The PPU consists of an operational amplifier with suitable performance, a resistance feedback network whose value could be changed by switching, and FET switches. The switching control is done by a reversible counter, decoder, and state control logic all using TTL chips. A digital code representing the gain constant is available together with the amplified signal. An experimental unit was built for use in a wide range, neutron flux, measuring channel. This channel is connected to the control computer's analog subsystem which has a 10 bit ADC. Accuracies better than 0.1% of full scale on the most sensitive range (10-9 amp.) and switching speeds less than 1 u. sec. are obtainable. The accuracy limits are imposed by the quality of a single amplifier, and the speed limits by the amplifier slew rate and the delay in a few IC logic chips."
"Expressions for the dc components of the field and armature currents of a SCR controlled split-field dc series motor are obtained in terms of the parameters of the motor and of the control circuitry. The linearized transfer function of the motor system is derived for small control signal. The result obtained analytically is compared with that obtained from an analog computer simulation study of the motor."
"A bridge inverter circuit with series tuned load is analyzed. The criterion for triggering frequency range is derived. Design considerations for the SCR and the tuning capacitor ratings are discussed."
"The methods of handling small signals from multidecade sensors are discussed. A simple, fast and accurate preprocessing amplification unit (PPU) with the capabilities of automatic gain switching is presented. The unit could be used in the analog channels of a computer based data acquisition and process control system. The use of such a unit with some of the analog sensors would increase the resolution of the measuring subsystem involved through the combined action of a shared analog-to-digital converter (ADC). The PPU consists of an operational amplifier with suitable performance, a resistance feedback network whose value could be changed by switching, and FET switches. The switching control is done by a reversible counter, decoder, and state control logic all using TTL chips. A digital code representing the gain constant is available together with the amplified signal. An experimental unit was built for use in a wide range, neutron flux, measuring channel. This channel is connected to the control computer's analog subsystem which has a 10 bit ADC. Accuracies better than 0.1% of full scale on the most sensitive range (10-9 amp.) and switching speeds less than 1 μ.sec. are obtainable. The accuracy limits are imposed by the quality of a single amplifier, and the speed limits by the amplifier slew rate and the delay in a few IC logic chips."
"Conventional, capacitor-input-filtered, full-wave rectifier power supplies draw much higher peak and rms line currents than the supply power drains would imply if the loads were resistive. Effective multiplication factors-termed wave factors-range from 5 to 15 for peak, and from 2 to 3 for rms, while remaining between 0.7 and 1 for average. Experimental data verify theoretical calculations for the wave factors involved. Ordinary clip-on and other conventional ammeters, measuring average but calibrated to read in rms for an equivalent sine wave, are thus unable to account for the difficulties sometimes encountered in the field. These include apparently undersized fuses, breakers and lines, plus severe clipping of the line voltage wave at the load. Solutions include use of auxiliary line inductors, plus wider recognition of the need for true rms metering with adequate crest factor capability in making all line current measurements. Implicacations for UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) manufacturers and users are also discussed. Wave factor WF is defined as the ratio of actual current drawn, to that which would be drawn by a resistive load with the same power consumption. Wave factors are derived for peak, rms and average input currents to full-wave rectifiers with capacitor input filters."
"This paper describes the use of high-power thyristors in conjunction with a low-voltage supply for generating pulsed magnetic fields. A modular bank of electrolytic capacitors is charged through a programmable solid-state power supply and then rapidly discharged through a bank of thyristors into a magnetizing coil. The modular construction of capacitor banks enables the discrete control of pulse energy and time. Peak fields up to 15 telsa (150 KOe) and a half period of about 200 microseconds are generated through the discharges. Still higher fields are produced by discharging into a precooled coil (77°K). Measurement method for a pulsed field is described."
"This paper is concerned with the development of a simple technique for decoupling the measurements of machine direction (MD) and cross machine direction (CD) variations in sheet process production systems employing a single scanning gauge. An important consequence of the method is that machine direction control can be exercised at a much higher rate than is possible with current methods of separating MD from CD. This, in turn, can mean a significant improvement in MD control performance since the range of MD disturbances a given control system is capable of suppressing is increased."
"In the design of push-pull type or bridge type inverters for dc to dc or dc to ac power conversion, one serious problem arises as a result of the difference in saturation voltages and unsymmetrical switching times of the power transistors. A slight difference in one of these parameters will put different volt-seconds on the power transformer primary in the two half cycles and drive the transformer into saturation. This can result in excessive saturation current in the power transistors and can eventually cause circuit failure [5]. This paper describes a half bridge transistor inverter which serves the same purpose of dc power conversion but eliminates the power transformer saturation problem. The analysis of this inverter circuit is discussed in detail. Several proposed designs for the control and protection circuits are also included."
"A method of constructing nonlinear characteristics from given describing functions data is proposed here. By this method the real and imaginary part of a given describing function (DF) can be separately realized by nonlinear characteristics which can be selected for control systems compensation. Also a method for synthesis of imaginary and polynomial type DF is proposed. The network for the construction of such nonlinearities and its use for compensation of a nonlinear system having limit cycles is also presented."
"A regenerative digital transducer (RDT) with an active linear response is described. The RDT can be operated in a contact or non-contact mode for moisture measurements in dielectric webs and in liquids or oils flowing inside dielectric pipes. The design is adapted for industrial measurements and on-line purposes."
"An analysis and design of a sample-hold circuit is presented and in addition, details of a working circuit. MOSFETs offer the possibility of a higher quality sample-hold circuit than has previously been available because of low leakage currents along with high switching speed and low ``on'' resistance."
"This letter discusses the design criteria for the pulsed operation of thyristors at currents much larger than the normal surge rating. The technique has been successfully used in generating a current pulser of 40,000 A lasting 2-3 milliseconds to generate intense magnetic fields. Such abnormal operation of thyristors finds extensive applications in pulsed magnetisers, resistance welders and other high energy capacitance discharge systems."
 "In the 19th century a relatively small group of scientists founded independently what was to become the electrical engineering profession. Because of the relatively small number and also because of the very special area of science in which they worked, these men soon became acquainted primarily through their dedication to learning. The resulting friendly relationships, which disregarded national barriers, established an international understanding which was later to become the basis for the standardization activity of today. The number of people entering this field soon made the commitment to paper of the basic understandings imperative. While the practical problems of committing an agreement to paper seem at times to be insurmountable, one needs only to view the quantity of people and of products to get a feeling for the chaos that would have existed if this effort had not been initiated."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Copyright and Reprint Permissions: Abstracting is permitted with credit to the source. Libraries may photocopy beyond the limits of US copyright law, for private use of patrons, those articles in this volume that carry a code at the bottom of the first page, provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through the Copyright Clearance Center. The papers in this book comprise the proceedings of the meeting mentioned on the cover and title page. They reflect the authors' opinions and, in the interests of timely dissemination, are published as presented and without change. Their inclusion in this publication does not necessarily constitute endorsement by the editors or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Depth profiles yielding both information on oxidation state and elemental composition have been obtained for model nichrome films by using X-ray Photo-electron Spectroscopy and argon ion sputtering. Evidence is presented showing the formation of thin insulating films at the interface between two metals caused by solid state reactions occuring between metals and metal oxides."
"Uniformly prepared samples have been used for comparison of profiles using three techniques. Proton resonance is nondestructive and provides the best depth resolution at or near the surface. PRP was used as a quantitative standard for total number of particles and for absolute depth. However, the ability of PRP to resolve fine structure beyond the first few hundred angstroms is inferior to SIMS and AES. Proton Resoance Profiling is not expected to be widely used as a profiling technique because of the capital equipment costs and the limited number of impurity-host combination. However, this technique can be utilized to evaluate and calibrate other diagnostic techniques in a quantitative manner. Auger Electron Spectroscopy is a nondestructive surface analysis technique and is most sensitive to surface impurities. In order to profile with AES, the surface must be sputtered, thus destroying the sample. The limits of sensitivity are on the order of 0.1 atomic 7. Thus, the SIMS and PRP techniques are more sensitive for depth profiling of dopants and trace impurities. AES capital equipment costs, however, are signifi'cantly lower than the other two techniques and many surface oriented reliability problems can be effectively examined by AES. Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry is the most sensitive of the techniques compared in this work and is capable of semiquantitative analysis of a wide range of dopants and impurities relevant to reliability studies. However, as with AES profiling the material is sputtered away thus destroying the sample."
"This paper describes a technique used successfully to locate the fail site in MOSFET (LSI) Logic Chips. It is used to analyze modules or chips which fail functionally during electrical test. Signal tracing is employed to locate the fail site while dynamically exercising the chip. This technique emphasizes the analysis of AC fails (timing problems) and chips with sputtered SiO2 (Quartz) passivation."
"Plasma etching or low temperature ashing with an RF field has found numerous applications in semiconductor processing and production. The advantage is a dry procedure with the introduction of no \"wet\" solutions. If a primary gas containing fluorine is introduced into the field, active fluorine ions are produced, which vigorously attack silicon and silicon dioxide, but, very importantly, do not attack metallic aluminum or nichrome. This selectivity of etch is of great advantage in the-removal of glass passivation from atop aluminum interconnects and fusible nichrome links. With the aid of an electron microprobe and a plasma etcher, fused nichrome links in PROMS were studied to determine the location and movement of the metal before and after fusion. Some examples of the use of plasma etching in lieu of wet chemical stripping of glass passivation are presented. And, finally, the use of plasma etching to facilitate the study of aluminum alloying into contact windows is described."
"The greatest concern on MOB devices is the physical integrity of the gate oxide. Leakage paths and/or shorts through defect sites in the oxide are a major device reliability problem. Optical microscopy is tedious and often does not resolve the defects. With this in mind, copper decoration techniques were developed that could reveal oxide failures sites down to 0.1μm size. The technique has isolated various failure mechanisms on MOS devices. This failure analysis capability has enhanced the ability to control the MOS process."
"A model of the behavior of a particle being vibrated within an enclosed space is presented. This model predicts increased particle detection probabilities by varying vibration parameters. The independent variables of the model are the acceleration level and the package thickness of the device being tested. The dependent variable is the vibration frequency. Support experimental evidence is included. A miniature magnetostriction transducer for calibration of the Particle Impact Noise (PIN) system has been developed. The device can be fabricated into an easily operated, self contained unit for system testing during production line usage of the PIN system. It has also been valuable in testing individual components of the system."
 "Several scanning electron microscopy voltage contrast techniques used for integrated circuit failure analysis are compared. A newer, simpler technique permitting the elimination of the topographic image information while retaining the voltage contrast information is described. This technique called Selective Voltage Contrast (SVC) also permits the viewing of voltages in a circuit as imposed by individual input level changes. Examples of the application of the technique are shown using bipolar integrated circuits and a charge coupled memory device."
"The results of theoretical and experimental investigations on flicker-and burst noise are used in order to point out the relation between excess noise and the internal properties of the transistors. Noise is show to be a good means of characterization of the surface parameters. A HTRB step stress test and a complementary long time storage are described. It emerges from the results that previous excess noisemeasurements give a good prediction of the failures and that noisiness is a very sensitive degradation parameter, the increase of which can be, sometimes, the only indicator of an imminent failure. A screening method is deduced."
"The results are presented of a study into the mechanism by which failure occurs in an integrated circuit when it is subjected to a discharge of static electricity. The current that flows through an integrated circuit during a static discharge is shown to be an exponentially decaying current pulse. The peak value and rate of decay of the pulse can be calculated through the use of suitable equivalent circuits. Experimental data was obtained by using a simple test apparatus to simulate the current pulses caused by an electrostatic discharge. The power density and temperature rise at critical locations in the integrated circuit were calculated by using the current expression and the relevant physical and electrical properties of the I. C. Failure was found to occur when the temperature near a junction reached the approximate melting point of silicon. As a consequence of this study, a technique is derived which will permit the prediction of approximate threshold levels of static voltage that will produce failure under various conditions."
"A reliability study was performed on an N-channel FET with a self-aligned gate and a field shield. It was found that the field shield was very successful in reducing leakage and did not add significantly to the failure rate of the structure, It was further found that in terms of dielectric shorts and VT stability, the silicon gate structure was as good as or better than comparable metal-gate devices."
"The proliferation of new processes, designs and materials now appearing within the confines of what used to be a discrete part package has made the design review an essential tool to the user of modern complex LSI circuits. The functional and circuit detail of a 1024 bit, field programmable, read-only memory is reviewed as an example of an LSI device with many unique features, as well as a device which has, in the past, experienced a unique failure mode (program recovery). All of the memory circuits are covered, however the three main elements essential to establishing and maintaining the program are emphasized. These elements are 1) the nichrome resistor programming element, 2) the circuit that develops and delivers the programming pulse and 3) the process and construction of the programming circuit."
"Reliability aspects of nichrome fusible link PROM's have been investigated and are defined in the areas of manufacturing, screening, testing and programming. Early mortality failure populations are analyzed and long term life considerations explored, The \"grow-back\" mechanism, a failure mode involving the relinking of fuses, is characterized and discussed in terms of design, programming, screening, testing and reliability."
"Computer designers whose-goals required rapid programming of semiconductor read only memories have utilized large quantities of PROMS (programmable read only memories). The most popular of these types of integrated circuit is programmed by raising the resistance of a nichrome resistor above a threshold value required to change the PROM output logic level. A study was made to determine the mechanisms associated with the problems of (1) hard to program resistors, (2) changes in output logic levels for resistors not programmed, and (3) resistors whose resistance drops after programming and causes a change in output level for the bit it reresents (reappearing bit or growback)."
"This paper describes some of the design and fabrication considerations in a 1024 bit programmable read only memory. The memory element in the PROM is a fusible link consisting of a notched stripe of poly crystalline silicon., A portion of the array is shown in Figure 1 depicting approximately eight cells. Each cell consists of a fusible link and a bipolar transistor. A cross section of the transistor and fuse is shown in Figure 2. Fabrication of the array follows the normal bipolar processing through the emitter step. At that point the poly crystalline silicon is deposited by standard silicon gate MOS techniques. The thickness is nominally 3KÅ After deposition, the fusible links are delineated with normal photo lithography with a notch width target of 2 microns. By suitable process control, including visual inspection of each wafer, this fuse dimension is routinely achievable. As an aid to width control, a resolution pattern is included on the photo mask. The fuse is then doped to the desired resistivity and the remaining processing again follows a standard flow of contact and metallization steps."
"A method for determining the susceptibility of semiconductor devices to damage from an electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) due to induced thermal second breakdown is described. The method can be used as a nondestructive screening test. It is based on the increase in junction reverse breakdown voltage with temperature and can be used to find the most EMP resistant devices of a given device type. A mathematical explanation is presented, and other tentative applications are proposed."
"A life-test study was made of a microwave power transistor-employing aluminum metallization. The life tests were conducted under dc overstress conditions to accelerate the rate of failure as a result of electro-migration of the metallization system. Extrapolation of the data obtained showed a predicted MTF of approximately one hundred years for the device under test at a typical operating-current density of 8.4 × 104 A/cm2 and junction temperature of 150°C. Analysis of the failures revealed the presence of both aluminum and silicon electromigration, with the latter the primary cause of failure, A failure-rate model was constructed from the data relating MTF to activation energy, temperature, and current density."
"A series of step stress, accelerated life tests and failure analyses was carried out on microwave power transistors to determine the mechanisms by which they fail, and to obtain an estimate of their expected lifetimes in use. Both gold and aluminum metallized transistors were evaluated, the first time such a direct comparison has been carried out. These tests have revealed that the aluminum devices are susceptible to at least two failure mechanisms, emitter-base degradation and electromigration. Electromigration was also observed on the gold devices. The aluminum devices tested fail, typically, after 150 hours at 280°C and 700 hours at 250°. If this data is extrapolated to a more normal junction temperature of 150°C, a median-time to failure of 5 × 105 hrs is obtained. The gold metallized devices have been life tested at junction temperatures of 340°C for as long as 2000 hours without failing."
 "A test method for the evaluation of metallization on semiconductors is presented and discussed. The method has been prepared in MIL-STD format for submittal as a proposed addition to MIL-STD-883. It is applicable to discrete devices and to integrated circuits and specifically addresses batch-process oriented defects. Quantitative accept/reject criteria are given for contact windows, other oxide steps, and general interconnecting metallization. Figures are provided that illustrate typical types of defects. Apparatus specifications, sampling plans, and specimen preparation and examination requirements are described. Procedures for glassivated devic es and for multi-metal interconnection systems are included."
"Various metallurgical failure modes of gold and aluminum wire bonds are described. Examples are taken from both low and high power devices. Whenever possible, known methods of avoiding these failure modes are given. Wire bond failure modes can be divided into two categories. The first is comprised of those failure modes that are caused by poorly controlled or poorly designed manufacturing processes that result in lower product yield or higher per unit bonding cost, as well as those processes that predispose the device to early field failure. The second category is comprised of the failure modes of adequately made bonds that are caused to fail by environmental stresses during the operating life of the device. The most frequent causes of failures are discussed in detail. These include non-optimized bonding schedules, cracks in the heels of ultrasonic bonds, intermetallic formation, poor metallization, and inadequate glassivation removal. Assuming that the package is hermetic, or for plastic devices that humidity and other corrosion producers are not present, then the primary wire bond failure modes in the second category result from environmental temperature exposure and the number of power or thermal cycles experienced by the device during operation. Both of these can induce intermetallic formation. The latter can cause metallurgical flexure-fatigue at the bond heel or in the wire."
"This survey paper on electromigration describes factors which govern the rate of electromigration and therefore relate to the lifetime of conductors stressed at high current density. These include the type of metal conductor, the conductor cross sectional area, lattice, grain boundary and surface diffusion effects, the addition of alloying elements, temperature and current density as well as the thermal conductivity of the substrate. The effect of gradients in temperature, current density, conductor composition and grain size on conductor lifetime are also discussed."
"Die bond failures are of particular concern because of their impact on the stability of device electrical performance over a period of time in use, during which the device may be subjected to elevated temperatures, thermal cycling, and hostile ambients. The ultimate failure of a die bond comes when the device fails either to block voltage, or to conduct current because either the semiconducting element has cracked, or the solder bond has ruptured. Earlier, before such catastrophic happenings, it is possible to find indications of trouble in developing trends toward increased junction leakage currents, or decreased power handling capability when heat can no longer be dissipated fast ecx nough to dat nough to prevent the device from going into secondary breakdown."
"The principles of corrosion have been reviewed from two aspects: Thermodynamics and kinetics. Thermodynamic considerations yield the relative corrosion tendencies ofthe elements. Three types of corrosion cells have also been mentioned: Galvanic, concentration and simple anodic. Kinetics attempts to explain and predict the actual corrosion behavior of materials. The relative corrosion tendencies, the metallurgical aspects and the environmental conditions must all 'be considered. The environmental conditions of interest are normally temperature, relative humidity, applied electrical bias and ionic contamination. Examples of practical corrosion problems have been discussed. Corrosion is a difficult subject because each case is highly specific. Corrosion of IC devices is even more difficult because of the small sizes of components and because the local corrosion conditions within the IC packages are unknown Several examples of metallization corrosion have been briefly described, such as Mo-Au (galvanic), Al and NiCr (simple anodic), and Al in the presence of phosphorus and chlorine(ionic contamination). The function of failure analysis laboratories is to identify the corrosion mechanism and the Mfaterial causing corrosion. Then that source of corrosion must be related back to the device processing and fabrication stages in order to prevent future problems. There are two approaches to preventing corrosion failures: (1) Protect corrosion susceptible materials from the corrosive environment, as in applying oxide and nitride passivation coatinqs and in packaging finished devices in plas tic or hermetically sealed containers; (2) utilize corrosion resistant systems, such-as the (thus far suecesssful) .Ti/W/Au system."
"In an investigation of the factors which determine the rate of electrolytic corrosion of the Al metallization in plastic-encapsulated ICs operated in a moist atmosphere, the surface conductivity of thermal SiO2 was measured as a function of relative humidity and temperature. Electrolysis in the water film adsorbed at high relative humidity produces either protection of the Al metallization by anodization or destructive corrosion at the anode and/or cathode. The occurrence of protection or destructive corrosion is mainly determined by the nature and amount of ionic impurities present in the water film and by temperature."
"The corrosion rate of aluminum metallization under bias was measured as a function of the phosphorus content of the CVD passivation glass under different temperature and humidity conditions. The electrolytic corrosion was the most intense at the negative electrode and the corrosion product was aluminum hydroxide Changing the phosphorus concentration from 2 to 10 wt. pct. increased the corrosion rate by a factor of 25. Increasing the relative humidity at 85°C from 85 to 100% caused the corrosion gate to increase by two orders of magnitude. A 30°C rise in temperature resulted in five times the corrosion rate. A model to account for the observed corrosion has been proposed."
"Surface chemical analyses by Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) indicate that hydrocarbon residues are frequent contaminants on gold hybrid microcircuit metallization. The primary electron beam for AES cracks the hydrocarbon contaminants causing a carbonaceous residue. Lead frame bonding data demonstrated that a carbon residue approxi-mately 10 A thick was indicative of thermo-compression bond degradation. Concentrations of two percent ozone in oxygen can remove a photoresist layer approximately 200 A thick in 100 hours at room temperature. This restores thermocompression bondability of gold surfaces."
"Current pulses, with power levels sufficient to burn out metal stripes in the 30 ns to 1000 ns pulse time range, were found to overcome lateral heat losses and permit the detection of metallization step coverage defects for the several cases of practical interest investigated. In the most extreme case, a sharp groove about 400 A wide, extending to within 650 A of the bottom of 9000 A thick aluminum metallization, was easily detected by pulse testing."
"The stability of sputtered thin film W contacts on heavily doped Si-Ge alloy has been determnined from measurements of contact resistance versus time for aging temperatures in the range 550-725°C. Contact failure time has been found to obey an Arrhenius type relation with an activation energy of 76 ± 5 kcal/mole and a projected lifetime of over ten years at temperatures be low 450°C. Contact resistance remains approximately constant for the first 80% of contact lifetime and then increases rapidly through several orders of magnitude, These large contact increases are accompanied by loss of contact adhesion and buckling. Comparison of this data with that from diffusion experiments indicates that the activation energy for contact failure is comparable with that for the initial stages of WSi2 layer growth iu W-Si systems."
"Non-destructive wire-bond pull tests are often specified by high-reliability electronic device users in order to eliminate weak, poorly made wire bonds. The main problem with the test has been in establishing a pull-force level which will assure that the bonds are adequately strong but will not damage them during the test. In the present work, factors affecting the non-destructive wire-bond pull-test are examined. The variables, such as wire and bond-loop elongation, bond geometry, bond deformation, and the mean and standard deviation of the destructive bond pull test are studied to determine theit influence on the non-destructive test. Different pull-force criteria are derived for wire with high elongation, such as is used in power devices, and for wire with low elongation, typically used for bonding integrated circuits."
"The use of gold in integrated circuit packages has become prohibitive because of cost. Of the current alternatives available, silver plating offers a favorable economic advantage to the MOS-LSI manufacturer. This paper discusses the economics of various gold substitute systems. In addition, the paper presents data which demonstrates the reliability of molded packages using silver plated lead frames. Reliability data on Life, Temperature Cycling, 85°C/85% R.H. and Solderability Testing is presented. Silver plating is an economical and reliable system for use in molded packages for MOS-LSI devices."
"A highly accelerated ac life test for high voltage dc capacitors has been developed which is useful for solid dielectric capacitors such as mica paper and high dielectric constant ceramics with low ac losses. The test utilizes the fact that corona intensity on ac is several orders of magnitude higher than on dc. It is shown that the mechanism of failure involves electrochemical erosion for both the mica paper and the ceramic dielectric material. The life times follow a power law with an exponent of 26 for mnica paper and 31 to 100 for the ceramic."
"The implementation and advantages of epoxy die-attach are described with special emphasis given to areas of mechanical integrity and product stability. A recent special test program indicates that the epoxy die-attach process results in reliable product."
"The radioisotope leak test has been modified to detect leaks, in integrated circuits and other devices mounted onto multilayer circuit boards, over the entire range from 10-1 to 10-8 atm. cc per second. The method combines radiation shielding techniques with three sequential tests using krypton-85. The test program has succeeded in detecting a significant number of leaky components on electronic boards for a high reliability space application."
"Elevated temperature and elevated humidity have been studied as stress factors for predicting the reliability of plastic encapsulated bipolar semiconductor components. The test transistors used in the study were encapsulated in a variety of epoxy resins and a silicone resin the purity of which were characterised by a determination of the conductivity of an aqueous extract of the resin. Both stress conditions induce failures modes due to gain degradation, leakage growth and increase in saturation voltages and, under humidity stress, the degree of degradation could be related to the resin purity. It is concluded that elevated temperature is not useful for predicting the reliability of epoxy encapsulated components but is useful for silicone encapsulated components operating above about 100°C. Humidity stress testing is shown to be valid and relevant for both epoxy and silicone encapsulated components operating below 100°C because of the water that will be present in the encapsulants in normal environmental conditions. It is proposed that the humidity stress factor for life predictive purposes is (RH)2 because this is directly related to the water content of the encapsulating resin and can be used as the basis of a physical model that explains the experimental observations in terms of the ionic impurity content of the resin."
"Sodium and a few other alkali metal impurities, introduced during processing into the SiO2 gate insulator of MOS devices, are easily ionized and are sufficiently mobile even at low temperatures to cause a considerable drift of the electrical characteristics of MOS devices. This paper reviews methods of detecting the presence of mobile ions and discusses techniques for reducing the concentration of impurities or eliminating their deleterious electrical effect."
"Double dielectric structures are used in devices and integrated circuits for the purposes of stabilization and encapsulation, increased breakdown strength, or for active operation as in MNOS and MAOS memory transistors. Instabilities are shown to arise from polarization, alkali migration and fixed interface charges, conductivity differences and the formation of slow and fast oxide states due to the application of high electric fields in memory devices."
"A review will be given of the instabilities of MOS field effect transistors caused by the time variation of the electrical properties of the Si-SiO2 interface during device life. Changes in interface properties can be accelerated by heating without bias and heating-with negative bias applied to the gate. The specific topics discussed will include how fixed oxide charge and interface trap densities change with accelerated aging, the effects of these changes on the characteristics of MOS field effect transistors, and how these changes can be minimized to achieve better reliability."
 "The metallurgical and electrical investigations were carried out on the Pt/Au-Ge and Ni/Au-Ge ohmic contacts to n-GaAs in focusing the degradation during aging. The characteristic structures in the alloyed regions and their metallurgical changes during aging (330°C) were examined by means of Electron Probe Micro-Analysis. The thick Pt and Ni films in the contact systems caused the reaction during aging to proceed. The degradation of the contact resistance during aging was found to take place with the progress of the metallurgical reaction. The details of the investigation including the discussions on the degradation mechanism will be described."
"Gallium Arsenide Gunn diodes have been investigated for long-term reliability prediction and verification of failure mechanisms. Data are presented concerning burn-out distribution in time, change in DC and RF parameters after DC high temperature burn-in, and step-stress testing. Alloying of the contact metalization into the active region above a critical temperature hampered interpretation of the step-stress results. Accordingly, constant stress testing was initiated. An improved thermal resistance measurement technique is presented for Gunn diodes. Results are verified using an IR radiometer."
"Fixed junction temperature operating tests have been conducted on two types of Ka-band IMPATT diodes: commercially available silicon devices, and gallium arsenide devices fabricated in-house. Median operational life of 106 hours at a junction temperature of 200°C has been predicted for the silicon devices, and the dominant failure mechanism has been identified as a localized penetration weakness of the platinum barrier layer. Experiments on the metallization layers of the GaAs devices have produced diodes with lower operating temperatures for a given added power, and longer life at the only operating temperature where the two devices have been compared, 350°C."
"Pyrolytic aluminum oxide has emerged as an MIS gate insulator which has good interface properties on silicon and is superior to SiO2 in radiation hardness. Experience has proven that this material and the pyrolytic deposition method are compatible with silicon technology and, in particular Al2O3 has been used to fabricate radiation-hard MOS integrated circuits, including the complementary-symmetry MOS (COS/MOS) circuits."
"A sealed two-level metallization system using tungsten has been developed at Bell Laboratories for LSI MOS fabrication. Tungsten is used-for both gate and interconnecting metal and is sealed from corrosive environments by an upper layer of Si3N4. Beam leads are provided at the periphery through via holes in the nitride for circuit access. Accelerated aging tests were performed to evaluate the chemical, mechanical and electrical stability performance of this system using both test chips and an actual 1024 bit dynamic RAM. Results from tests on packaged ceramic DIPs coated with RTV rubber indicate >300 hrs. MTTF for steam bomb tests at 55 psi and 150°C, and >108 hrs. MTTF at 80°C for high temperature reverse bias tests. Dynamic step stress results give a lower bound of 106 hrs. at 80°C. These results are within the requirements of most high reliability systems and indicate that tungsten is a viable alternative to aluminum."
"Numerous semiconductor failures have been experienced in the Viking Lander, Skylab, and Titan III Launch Vehicle programs. These included junction field effect transistors (J-FET), planar diodes, bipolar digital integrated circuits in discrete and hybrid packages, internally compensated operational amplifiers, and input-protected MOS LSI circuits (Metal-Oxide Semiconductor Large Scale Integrated circuits). All parts had passed high-reliability 100% screening tests and came from lots that had met rigorous sample acceptance test requirements. All of the failures were encountered during some phase of handling or test of the parts or circuit assemblies. Junction failures exhibited significant increases in reverse leakage current and degradation of reverse breakdown voltage. Failure sites were isolated to minute rediffusion of the junction at the silicon/silicon-dioxide interface."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Introduces the articles presented in this issue of the magazine."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Introduces the articles presented in this issue of the magazine."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"The displayed information and material was inadvertently omitted from the end of the article, \"Handling the Information Bomb,\" by James Kollegger in Volume 2, Number 1 of the Engineering Management Review."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Introduces the articles presented in this issue of the magazine."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Introduces the articles presented in this issue of the magazine."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"This publication contains reprint articles for which IEEE does not hold copyright. Full text is not available on IEEE Xplore for these articles."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The interpretation of complex structural models is facilitated by a variety of operations that can be carried out by a computer. Several of these involve partitions on a reachability matrix, which describes a contextual relation among the elements of the system under study. When partitioning of the reachability matrix in various ways does not permit adequate interpretation, cycles are usually the source of difficulty. A weighting matrix applied to the elements of a maximal cycle set permits a set of digraphs to be developed, which allows for more detailed interpretation of a cycle. When still further development is needed, the maximal cycle sets can be identified and placed in a hierarchy based on an inclusion relation. This hierarchy suggests a natural order of study of the system proceeding from the least complex maximal cycle sets to the most complex sets."
"Typical areas with which systems science is concerned, such as biological, behavioral, and social processes, transportation, urban and environmental studies, involve the development of mathematical models of the underlying processes. In general, the observed data of the variables associated with these processes provide the statistical description of these variables. It is of considerable importance to infer the functional relationship between these variables using their statistical description. Models that depict the functional relationship between the variables are known as causal models. The application of path analysis to the development of causal models, which are useful in systems science, is discussed. Path analysis is described and illustrated with examples. The usefulness of path analysis to systems engineers involved in the development of information systems is pointed out."
"A discrete dynamic model of multidimensional high-order difference equations is described for the dynamics of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and dissolved oxygen (DO) in a multiple-reach river system. The high-order difference equations represent the distributed transport delays between the adjacent reaches in the river to allow for the effects of dispersion of BOD and DO. A hierarchical optimization technique, which is based on duality and decomposition, is applied to the high-order discrete dynamic model having state and control constraints for minimizing the deviation of water quality from the desired level. It is shown that the distributed delay model is the most realistic one by comparing the responses for no delay, pure delay, and distributed delay models. By solving a 4-reach problem it is also shown that the hierarchical optimization technique is a powerful tool for optimizing fairly large dimensional discrete dynamic systems having distributed transport delays and state and control constraints."
"Sociology is an area in which there are a great many verbal propositions concerning the behavior of human groups under various conditions. If we accept the fact that it makes sense to discuss and analyze social phenomena in terms of quantities that are not precisely defined in a mathematical sense (such as the levels of joint activity, interaction, and friendliness associated with a group), then it would seem worthwhile to consider what conclusions can be drawn from the nature and gross quantitative properties of sets of relations that appear to be translations of sets of verbal propositions into the language of mathematics. Here we consider this question in some detail for a particular type of set of verbal propositions."
"A new method for modeling the human operator from actual input-output data utilizing time series analysis is discussed in this applications oriented paper. The technique first identifies the form of the model, then estimates the parameters of the identified model based on actual data. Finally it checks the fitted model in relation to the data with the aim of revealing model inadequacies, thus providing model improvement. The methodology for applying the time series technique for determining the model of the human element in a feedback system is discussed. In addition, an approach for determining the human model under various levels of stress is discussed. The time series approach is a useful method for modeling any set of discrete observables corrupted with noise, be it human or some other deterministic/stochastic process. Since this is the first time that the human model has ever been obtained from the time series method, it is quite understandable that the results described shed new light on certain aspects of this problem, reveal new insights into the human model, and ask other probing questions."
          "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Handprinted character recognition by computer is accomplished on forty-nine character classes with a high recognition rate (> 99.4 percent). The form of characters is constrained by requiring each character to be handprinted on a standard grid. The grid is composed of twenty line segments, each of which forms the basis for a feature, yielding twenty features to represent each character. A person printing these characters is not expected to remain precisely on the grid lines. The errors that do occur in following the grid lines are assumed to be normally distributed; therefore, each feature is based on a \"longitudinal Gaussian-shaped surface.\" A page of constrained characters to be recognized is input to the computer using a television camera. Each character on the page is located, isolated from the other characters, and quantized into binary points. A novel technique utilizing a Gaussian point-to-line distance concept for calculation of \"feature value\" has been employed. The recognition program extracts the twenty feature values and attempts to determine in which of the forty-nine character classes the unknown character belongs. This decision is made based on these twenty features using a weighted minimum distance classifier. If only a marginal classification can be made, a second-level decision is used to increase the likelihood of correct classification. The second-level decision uses the most discriminating features of the two most likely character classes in order to increase the likelihood of correct classification. All character-dependent data are obtained through training techniques."
"Specialized patient care facilities such as coronary care units, intensive care units, renal dialysis units, and cancer radiation therapy units usually constitute scarce resources in a health care delivery system. When patients \"compete\" for these facilities, decisions on patient selection are made. It is not infrequent to hear the motto of \"treating high-risk patients first.\" A quantitative model implied by the motto is presented. It is assumed that patient classes could be established in terms of the relative effectiveness to be expected from treatments in the facility. For each patient class, arrivals are assumed to be Poisson. The state of the system at a decision point corresponds to the number of patients of each class already in the facility as well as the class of the arriving patient. If the objective is to optimize the overall system effectiveness, and exponentiality assumptions are made about the length-of-stay distributions, then the problem can be formulated in a Markov renewal program. To illustrate the approach, alternative admission policies for a four-bed coronary care unit are studied. There it is shown that the average overall mortality rate can be reduced when a relatively discriminating admission policy is used at a high occupancy level. Simulation runs are also made to evaluate the effects of the exponential approximations."
"A model of the production of wildfire ignitions and damages is developed and used to determine wildland activity-regulation decisions, which minimize total expected cost-plus-loss due to wildfires. In this context, the implications of various policy decisions are considered. The resulting decision rules take a form that makes it possible for existing wildfire management agencies to readily adopt them upon collection of the required data."
"The optimal cooling water discharge policy from a power plant to a stream has been studied for the purpose of preventing thermal pollution. The control policy has been obtained by means of the maximum principle and also by means of a direct search technique. The optimal policy permits a power plant to operate at the highest possible capacity and at the same time to maintain a high water quality. The policy depends on the relative weight between water quality represented by the dissolved oxygen (DO) distribution and power generation represented by the cooling water discharge rate. The transient temperature, DO, and biological oxygen demand (BOD) profiles corresponding to the optimal policy have also been determined."
"A kinesthetic-tactual compensatory display for presenting critical vehicular control information has undergone preliminary inflight testing with novice pilots. The efficacy of this presentation, as compared with two types of visual displays, was evaluated in both a highly structured approach and landing task and a less structured task involving tight turns about a point. The displayed quantity was the direct or indirect deviation(αD-α) in angle of attack from a desired value αD. In both tasks, direct display of (αD α) resulted in the least errors. In the former task, the performance with the tactual display was comparable to that obtained using a direct visual display of (αD /spl alph/). In the latter, a significant (p < 0.01) reduction in - tracking error (55 percent) was obtained using the tactual display along with decreased maximum altitude variations (51 percent) and decreased speed variations (33 percent). It appears that such a display offers considerable potential for inflight use."
"An algorithm to select the minimum-cost collection of binary-valued features for use with a linear pattern classifier is presented. The feature-selection algorithm is motivated by the convex-hull representation of pattern-space separability. Combinatorial analysis and linear programming are used to find the minimum-cost collection of binary-valued features associated with a given set of preclassified patterns. A description of the interaction between these algorithm components is provided. The algorithm guarantees that its optimal feature set will correctly classify every pattern in the classifier's training sample. Coinputational considerations associated with algorithm use are discussed. An application of the algorithm to a three-feature classifier is presented in detail."
"General schemes for the adaptive control and identification of multivariable systems whose entire state vectors are accessible for measurement are developed. A model reference approach is used here, and Lyapunov's direct method is employed to ensure the convergence of these schemes. An added feature is the simplicity of the stable adaptive laws, which depend explicitly on the state variables of the plant and a model, and on the plant input. Computer simulation results of several examples are included to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed schemes."
"The extension of some of the results contained in Part I [1] to the case when only the plant outputs rather than all its state variables are accessible for measurement is discussed. A unified approach to the synthesis of an adaptive observer is presented whereby the plant state and parameters are simultaneously estimated. Uniform asymptotic stability of the scheme is proved using Lyapunov's direct method. The information provided by the adaptive observer is used to synthesize an adaptive controller for the plant. While all the principal results obtained here are for the case of a single-input single-output plant, extensions to special classes of multivariable systems is indicated."
                         "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"By expressing the output/input voltage ratio as a linear fractional transformation in the normalized resistances, six one-thermistor temperature-measuring circuits are analyzed and their common design parameters are emphasized. Conditions are derived for circuit operating point selection to maximize the transducer linear operating range."
"The errors of a series-parallel four-terminal resistor build-up box due to imperfections in the tetrahedral junctions are analyzed. It is shown how these errors can be made negligible by choosing orientations of the junctions."
"This paper analyzes the low-frequency parametric amplifier, which, in opposition to the parametric amplifiers in the high-frequency range, is wide band and can be realized only simultaneously as an upper and lower sideband up-converter. Three derived basic equations give the possibility of drawing equivalent circuits, in order to calculate gain and stability conditions. The influence of detuning on characteristics of amplifiers is analyzed and investigated experimentally. Cascading more stages of parametric amplifiers is meaningless. The best results can be obtained when the second stage is an upper sideband up-converter. LF parametric amplifiers enable us to achieve a low noise (<0.3 μV for 100-Hz bandwidth), free from flicker noise, a high input resistance and a high common-mode rejection ratio. For this reason, the amplifier can be applied as the measuring preamplifier of brain voltages."
"A voltage-controlled free-running multivibrator is described. In the new circuit use is made of two bistable regenerative switches connected by a single timing capacitor to realize an astable multivibrator. The circuit provides rectangular output waveforms of very short rise and fall times over a wide range. Low output impedance of the regenerative switches permits driving large resistive and capacitive loads. Among other features of the circuit are the facility of logarithmic or linear variations of frequency by a modulating control voltage, its sure-starting nature, and its integrability."
"The design of a digital phase generator which produces two outputs of frequency f, between which the phase shift can be varied from 0 to 360° in steps of 1°, from an input frequency of 360f, is described. The system design is described in detail. The circuit design and the choice of the circuit elements are discussed. Fast logic elements have been used in the construction of the instrument. A brief analysis of the performance of the system is also given. From the experimental results, which agree with the calculated performance, it is found that the accuracy of the system varies and is as high as 0.05 percent when the phase shift is 359°. The accuracy of the system is limited only by the propagation delays of the logic elements used and therefore can be improved by using faster logic elements."
"A solid-state converter, used in a system of instrumentation for measuring aircraft noise and sonic boom, features a dualgate FET mixer and an output stage designed for compatibility with a zero drive amplifier of MB Electronics, Inc. With a half-inch condenser microphone the converter itself has an operating frequency range from dc-28 kHz (-3 dB), dynamic range of 72 dB, and noise floor of 50 dB in the band 22.4 Hz-22.4 kHz; the system requires no impedance matching networks and is insensitive to cable length up to at least 3000 ft."
"The interfacing of a spectrophotometer with a digital computer is discussed. The spectrophotometer collects and measures spectral and environmental data from agricultural crops and products to estimate yield and disease. The wavelength position of the spectrophotometer is coupled to the interface through an electromechanical encoder. The output signal and the signal from the interface are applied to the direct memory access interface (DR11-B) of the PDP-11. The processing of the spectral data is accomplished by the software interface."
"A simple low-cost \"latched\" division network is described which is capable of executing the \"division by time\" operation commonly required in many digital instrumentation applications. Typical of these are velocity and acceleration measurements. The division network which was implemented and is described here is capable of performing division with two 16-b numbers (1 b being the sign bit) and producing a 15-b answer within 4.0 μs (worst case delay). It uses a modified version of the restoring division technique and assumes positive numbers as input, although the modification to operate with negative numbers is possible. A comparison of this technique is made with a previously published design used in a tachometer. Results indicate that significant improvement is possible in both speed and hardware."
"A technique is presented for the design of a programmable filter instrument in which the frequency response may be electronically programmed by an external analog or digital signal. The active ladder structure is used because the passband insertion loss is highly insensitive to element tolerances. The basis of the method is the selection of a set of electronically switched conductances within the general active ladder structure, which is directly related to the frequency domain characteristics of the transfer function. The frequency response is controlled by accurately programming the values of the conductances in this set. An instrument is presented which embodies these principles and illustrates the versatility which is possible with programmable active ladder structures."
"Frequency stability of high-quality signal sources is characterized in the Fourier frequency domain by the spectral density Sy(f) of the fractional instantaneous frequency deviation y(t), and in the time domain by the Allan variance σy2(τ). Two well-known types of measuring apparatus used to evaluate these parameters are analog spectrum analyzers and digital electronic counters, respectively. A detailed analysis of the structure of the relation between σy2(τ) and Sy(f) shows that it is possible to define a variance, i.e., a time-domain measure, by its transfer function in the Fourier frequency domain, even when no corresponding measurement sequence exists in the time domain. Two different kinds of variance are then defined, which possess different properties for white and flicker phase noises. One of these variances is an estimate of the Allan variance. These variances may be measured by a suitable filtering of phase noise at the output of a phase detector."
"A method is presented and analyzed that allows the implementation of a technique for the direct measurement of the time constant of single and/or multiple event exponentially decaying signals of the form: Y = K exp (-αt). The decaying exponential signal is fed into monolithic comparators which detect two preselected voltage levels of the signal. By means of TTL logic circuitry the output of the comparators are converted into a pulse. The duration of the pulse is directly proportional to the time constant of the signal and can thus be measured by different means. The technique described is capable of a dynamic range with a lower limit of 50 ns and a measured higher limit of several milliseconds, however, there is no theoretical upper limit with this method. The accuracy of the measurements remains within 1 percent, utilizing standard inexpensive components. Both lower limit and accuracy can be improved by the use of selected components. Inaccuracies of the measurements due to temperature variations from 0 to 80°C could not be detected by standard laboratory methods."
"Resistors are frequently used for measuring waveforms and magnitudes of pulse currents, assuming that the effect of residual inductance of the resistors is very small. However, when the very high-frequency components of the current must be taken into account, the effect of the residual inductance cannot be neglected. In this paper, a new current measuring device with a resistor of a special type is described. It is so constructed that the effect of residual inductance does not appear in the observing circuit of the device. Consequently, the voltage observed becomes exactly the product of the resistance of the device and the current to be measured, flowing through the device. As the effect of the residual inductance of the device does not appear in the observing circuit, the resistance of the device can be made very low, consequently, the circuit condition will be practically undisturbed by the connection of the device."
"A simple frequency-domain method for measurement of the dielectric properties of materials is described. Theoretical analysis of the frequency dependence of the reflection coefficient of a shunt lumped capacitor located at the end of a transmission line and filled with a very small amount of the dielectric (typically a few microliters) is given. Analysis and calculations of the overall uncertainty in permittivity measurements, as well as experimental results for some normal alcohols, are presented and limitation of the method discussed."
"The synthesis and the analysis of the sequential phasemeter based on the polarity-coincidence correlator is described. This phasemeter is devoted to harmonic signal phase-difference measurement in the presence of large random disturbances at the given-accuracy. The realization of the sequential phasemeter and some approximations that seem to be useful are presented as well."
"An ideal short-circuiting ring (R = 0) represents an infinite magnetic resistance for magnetic flux. A core of suitable shape allows an influence to be exercised upon the path of magnetic flux in a ferromagnetic circuit by displacing a short-circuiting ring. This fact may be utilized to construct transformative or inductive transducers. Two practical arrangements are described, and the effects on the characteristics of various parameters such as short-circuit resistance, core geometry, frequency of the energizing current, etc., are explained. The transducers examined attain a linearity error of 0.3 percent for displacement of 10 cm. The transducers, as described, do not show any wear, and the force of the short-circuiting ring exerted on the object of measurement remains a factor of 1000 below the force of the transducer used previously. Consequently, transducers (for linear travel or angular rotation) with short-circuiting rings are suitable both for use as rugged shop instruments and for precision transducers in metrology and control."
"A bridge with inductively coupled ratio arms based on a seven decade inductive voltage divider is described. It is used for mutual comparisons between the standard inductors which form the IEN reference bank of inductance. Provided some auxiliary balances are made, this bridge is able to measure its own residual inductances, both the inductances of the standard-to-bridge connections (about 2 μH), made constant by the rigidity of the system geometry within a few nanohenries, and those of the variable resistance elements, also known within a few nanohenries. The self-calibrations are sufficiently accurate because the bridge has a high sensitivity even in comparisons of 1-μH inductors and in the use of ratios up to 1:100. Three variable resistance components are used to balance the bridge: a commercial box of 1-Ω steps, with calibrated inductance increments; a two-material helicoidal-motion wire resistor (0 to 1 Ω), suitably designed with inductance variations less than ±1 nH; and a constant-geometry three-decade Kelvin-Varley divider, also designed for this specific purpose, with its total and partial inductance measured, and its total inductance kept constant within 1 nH. Where possible, connections between bridge components are realized by rigid tetra-axial conductors (4 coaxial tubular conductors). To avoid inductive coupling between the standards and the third tubular conductor, it is made of coated wires aligned along the generatrices of a cylinder. Provided the phase errors of the inductive voltage divider are known only within 1 μrad, the bridge has an estimated ratio accuracy of ±[2."
"A prototype of a semi-real time system for synchronizing the Deep Space Net station clocks by radio interferometry was successfully demonstrated on August 30, 1972. The system utilized an approximate maximum likelihood estimation procedure for processing the data, thereby achieving essentially optimum time sync estimates for a given amount of data, or equivalently, minimizing the amount of data required for reliable estimation. Synchronization accuracies as good as 100 ns rms were achieved between Deep Space Stations 11 and 12, both at Goldstone, Calif. The accuracy can be improved by increasing the system bandwidth until the fundamental limitations due to baseline and source position uncertainties and atmospheric effects are reached. These limitations are under 10 ns for transcontinental baselines."
"Exact incremental algorithms are developed for computing the mean and the correlation functions of time signals. Corresponding special-purpose computer organizations for a recursive averager and correlator are suggested."
"The effect of random image perturbation on the measurement of the center of mass of uniform object-images using a two-dimensional sensor array is analyzed. Measurement error is computed for various images projected in different positions with respect to the array matrix."
"Hot-wire anemometers, when used in a nonisothermal flow field, respond to both fluid temperature and fluid velocity fluctuations, even when operating conditions are selected to minimize the response to one of the stimuli. Use of a two-or three-wire array for the simultaneous measurement of temperature and velocity fluctuations and their mutual statistics has been shown to lead to significant errors, if, as is general practice, the approximate sensor responses are assumed to be ideal responses. An extension of the traditional techniques is described which eliminates this major source of error but still retains the simplicity of signal processing of the earlier methods."
"The design, construction, and calibration of a passive transmission-line network that provides 2 pulses separated by 2.5 ns ± 1 ps, when excited by a single pulse, is described. The timing standard is useful for calibrating time window durations in time-domain measurement."
"An active microwave system for continuous and contactless measurement of the diameter or basic weight of a low-loss continuous dielectric fiber is described. The frequency of oscillation of a Gunn-diode oscillator is a measure of the diameter of the dielectric fiber passing through the oscillator cavity. Some experimental results are presented and limitations of the method discussed."
"A new technique for the measurement of contact gap is presented. Finally, the use of the instrument in the determination of arc initiation voltage is described."
"It is shown that the figure-of-merit of microwave detector diodes can be measured directly using a noise measurement technique based on digital Fourier analysis. This technique enables the operating conditions of these diodes to be optimized while an in situ part of an instrumentation system."
  "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The detailed design and the analysis of a simple, accurate, and inexpensive linear scale ohmmeter are presented. The accuracy of measurement by the new ohmmeter is within ±1 percent in the range 10-1-106 Ω, ±2 percent at 10 MΩ, and ±10 percent at 100 MΩ. Unlike most other conventional megohmmeters, this operates with low voltage across the sample and does not require the use of a high input impedance voltmeter. The new circuit exhibits good operational stability."
"A technique for increasing the linear range of a magnetoresistor displacement transducer by means of shaped pole pieces is developed. The method of determining the required profiles is discussed and observations on the machining of the pole pieces are made. Practical results given in the paper show a sevenfold increase in the linear range. The technique described may have applications in other fields."
"This article describes the design, development, and analysis of exceptionally accurate radiometric noise generators from 0-40 GHz to serve as standard references. Size, weight, power, and reliability are optimized to meet the requirements of NASA air- and space-borne radiometers. The radiometric noise temperature of these noise generators is, unavoidably, calculated from measured values rather than measured directly. The absolute accuracy and stability are equal to or better than those of reliable standards available for comparison. A noise generator has been developed whose measurable properties (VSWR, line loss, thermometric temperatures) have been optimized in order to minimize the effects of the uncertainty in the calculated radiometric noise temperatures. Each measurable property is evaluated and analyzed to determine the effects of the uncertainty of the measured value. Unmeasurable properties (primarily temperature gradients) are analyzed, and reasonable precautions are designed into the noise generator to guarantee that the uncertainty of the value remains within tolerable limits."
"A new approach is described for the desiga of HF/VHF crystal-controlled frequency sources exhibiting theoretical short-term stability unattainable through the use of conventional quartz oscillator design. The signal generator design uses the concept of AFC stabilization of a conventional quartz oscillator (VCXO) by means of a crystal-controlled highly selective active frequency reference. The AFC reference is a phase-shift type frequency discriminator that employs a product detector and an active Q-multiplied quartz crystal resonator. The extremely selective transmission response, large group delay, and power gain exhibited by the resonator, together with resonator phase noise levels comparable to that exhibited by the oscillator-maintaining circuit, provide the principal means for prediction of superior output signal spectral purity. Models of the resonators have been designed and constructed at 30 and 80 MHz, exhibiting 3-dB bandwidths of 30 and 160 Hz, respectively. Based on actual measurement of VHF Q-multiplied crystal resonator performance characteristics, approximately 16 dB improvement in VHF crystal-controlled frequency source spectral purity at low and moderate modulation rates is possible, compared to that attainable using the best available VHF quartz oscillator circuit designs."
"A system is described that automatically and rapidly measures the electrical parameters for each channel in a multichannel digitally tuned bandpass filter. The performance of the filter over its entire tuning range is determined from the individual channel frequency characteristics. Channel frequency characteristics are displayed to summarize the overall performance of the filter and in such a manner as to indicate the channel tuning adjustments necessary to meet the filter specifications."
"A serial analog-to-digital converter is described, with a resolution of 9 b at a word rate of 5 kHz for input voltages of ±0.5 V, at a total power dissipation of approximately 10 mW. A 10-channel multiplexer is included. Although designed originally for application in implantable telemetry systems, this design should prove useful for other low-power data acquisition requirements."
"Time-domain reflectometer (TDR) techniques have been used to test transmission line systems for over fifteen years. The technique described in this paper is an extension to present-day techniques and is designed particularly to detect small changes in the reflection coefficient of distributed systems versus time. The instrument uses some of the techniques of narrow-band TDR to provide a waveform, related to the distributed reflection coefficient of the system under test, to a small computer. The computer can then perform any of a number of manipulations to the waveform, depending on the wishes of the operator. One particular program produces a waveform profile on a storage oscilloscope which displays small changes in the distributed reflection coefficient with time. This capability of being able to display very small changes in reflection coefficients has resulted in the development of an obstacle detection scheme using so called \"leaky\" coaxial cable to detect objects at some distance from the cable."
"An electronic system for the control of the output cwrrent of a windowless electron multiplier destined for the measurement of low-energy electron and proton fluxes is described. Having established the equations representing the static operation, in the cases of current and voltage reference sources, the general structural organization in which the studied submodule is integrated is discussed. Justification for the choice of the low-voltage components is given. High-voltage insulation, system stability, and estimation of the catalectic failure probability theory is included."
"A pulsed eddy current technique is described that is suitable for plating thickness measurements of low-permeability metals such as Au or Ag on high-permeability wire in the 3-80 mg/ in' range. Equipment costs, speed, and accuracy are such as to make this technique a strong contender not only for laboratory measurements but also for production line testing. The method is usable for plating thickness measurements whenever the ratio of relative permeability to electrical conductivity for the plating material differs substantially from that for the substrate, with the added condition that at least the plating is electrically conductive."
"A tracking polarimeter implemented on the 64-m National Aeronautics and Space Administration/Jet Propulsion Laboratories (NASA/JPL) paraboloid antenna at Goldstone, Calif., is described. Its performance is analyzed and compared with measurements. The system was developed to measure Faraday rotation in the solar corona of the telemetry carrier from the Pioneer VI spacecraft as it was occulted by the sun. It also measures rotation in the earth's ionosphere and is an accurate method of determining spacecraft orientation. The new feature of this system is its use of a pair of quarter-wave plates to allow the synthesis of a rotating feed system, while requiring the rotation of only a single section of waveguide. Since the polarization sensing is done at RF and the receiver operates essentially as a null detector, the system's accuracy is superior to other polarization tracking schemes. In addition, the antenna size and maser preamplifier provide unsurpassed sensitivity. The associated instrumentation used in the Pioneer VI experiment is also described."
"A programming system is described which provides the software flexibility normally found in minicomputers to microcomputers. With this system, PROM's can be programmed automatically from user written source code."
"A description is given of the principle of operation of a novel frequency meter which makes use of the phenomenon of jump resonance. The prototype instrument gives better than one percent accuracy over the audio and low radio frequency range and accepts inputs with a wide range of waveforms."
"Methods for output voltage linearization of a thermistor astable multivibrator bridge (AMB) and a monostable multivibrator bridge (MMB) are given. In addition to higher sensitivity in comparison with Wheatstone bridge, thermistor multivibrator bridges can have direct application in telemetering and digital recording of temperature. The linearity condition of thermistor AMB and MMB are independent of indicator resistance. Experimental multivibrator bridges with IC differential transistor pairs have shown excellent stability at ambient temperature variations."
"A high speed pulse generator is suitably connected to a length of plated wire so that the voltage drop along the wire is a strong function of plating thickness. The method is usable for measuring the thickness of an electrically conductive plating material on wire when the ratio of magnetic permeability to electrical conductivity for the substrate differs substantially from that for the plating. Measurements for silver on nickel-iron are reported for the plating range of 4.8 to 152 μin."
"Some new configurations for inductorless phase-shifters are presented. Network realization is done by using a finite gain differential amplifier which permits application over a wide range of frequency. Methods of phase tuning in the discrete and the integrated circuits are reported."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An X-band source of excellent frequency stability is needed in infrared frequency multiplication of high order. Such a source has been used in frequency multiplication by a factor of 401 using a point-contact Josephson junction as a frequency multiplier and mixer. Noise data on three X-band systems are reported. Two of these systems use klystrons as the source of X-band power; the other uses a Gunn oscillator. Each of these three systems employs both cavity and injection stabilization. Injection stabilization, using a quartz-oscillator-driven multiplier chain, provides the second-to-second and minute-to-minute stability needed for the Josephson junction experiment. To our knowledge, this is the first published noise data where cavity and injection stabilization are simultaneously employed. The quality of the best system reported here is much better-both around 1 Hz from the carrier and around 50 kHz from the carrier-than the source used to multiply by a factor of 401 to 3.8 THz."
"A circuit employing one operational amplifier and one analog multiplier is used to produce a voltage output proportional to the quantity t when the input voltage is related to t (e.g., temperature) by at + bt2, where a and b are constants. The determination of the resistor values, the useful operating voltage range, the accuracy of the linearizing process and the effects of changes in the ambient temperature are discussed. Extension of the circuit to higher order polynomial functions is also considered."
"Precision positional controllers are an essential part of certain photogrammetric instruments of which the most universal and accurate is the Analytical Stereorestitutor. After a review of the concept of this instrument, the controller design for it is discussed. An aim is to free the machine computer to circulate real-time photogrammetric programs as rapidly as possible. Simple controllers which have their own scaling and nonlinear functions are also described for use on peripheral photogrammetric devices."
"Wind-velocity measurement at remote winter mountain sites is hampered by icing of the moving parts of the measuring device and by restrictions on the amount of electrical power which is available. A sonic velometer which determines the wind velocity by measuring the transit times of sound pulses in air and has no moving parts has been developed. The sound pulse transit times are measured accurately through the use of phase-locking techniques. Circuit construction is exclusively solid state, with integrated circuits used for several functions. The device exhibits an uncertainty of 0.05 percent in the determination of the pulse-transit times yielding a wind-velocity resolution capability of 0.13 m/s. The velometer has been tested over a dynamic range of 5 m/s."
"An experimental investigation of the response of hot wire to plane acoustic waves in an airstream is presented. The sensing of the pressure fluctuations by the hot wire depends on the relative magnitude between the pressure fluctuations due to the acoustic waves and the velocity fluctuations due to the local turbulence. For low turbulence the results agree well with a mathematical analysis of the problem."
"In the past, the accuracy of reactive measurement has been substantially limited by the precision with which two voltages in quadrature could be generated. A technique employing a commercially available electronic phasemeter has been developed whereby phase angles may be established very precisely. This technique is described in the context of reactive measurements, and other applications are suggested as well."
"A method to determine accurately the strength of magnetic fields produced by a transmitting small loop antenna for the RF field standards is presented. The field strength can be determined by the magnetic dipole moment of the loop. A loop antenna factor is introduced to express the magnetic dipole moment of a transmitting small loop antenna in terms of the incident power to the antenna input port. The emergent power from the output port of a receiving small loop antenna can also be expressed in terms of the magnetic field to be detected and of the loop antenna factor. The insertion loss method (or the three antenna method) is applied to measuring the loop antenna factor. Small loop antennas with diameters 10 cm were designed, and loop antenna factors were measured by the insertion loss method over frequencies up to 30 MHz with a systematic error of 0.08 dB."
"An instrument that has been developed for measuring the deformations in shape that result from the movement of a radio telescope reflector is described. A radar technique is used to measure distances from near the focal point of the reflector to selected points on the reflector surface. The short term accuracy of the instrument is ±0.003 in) and when used on the 140-ft telescope in Green Bank, W.Va., good agreement was found between calculated and measured deformations."
"A detailed theory of noise generation in waveguides reveals that the effect of standing waves may not in general be neglected, as has commonly been done in the past. Some special cases in which this standing-wave effect may be neglected are pointed out. The theory of a simple, cheap, and very accurate method for measuring the noise contribution of the input waveguide in very low-noise receiving systems is also presented. In this method, no hot-cold body is used, but only a room temperature load, a fixed short circuit, and a fixed open circuit. Measurements on a 3-GHz traveling-wave maser system support the theory and also show that the simple method yields a result at least as accurate as can be obtained using a commercial hot-cold body."
"Impulse generators are not conventional instruments and present their own calibration problems. A new method for calibrating the output spectral density level of impulse generators is explained. A Dicke-type radiometer is used for measuring the equivalent noise temperature of the output power spectral density which can easily be converted to the spectral density (amplitude). The switching sequence of the radiometer should be synchronized with the impulse generator in order to have all the impulses delivered to the receiver. This method eliminates the need for computing impulse bandwidth and the need for measuring bandpass characteristics of the receiver. It also does not require a sophisticated radiometer but a simple Dicke radiometer. An impulse generator with 50 pulses per second (pps) rate is calibrated with a Dicke radiometer with a square wave switching sequence of 400 Hz. There is reasonable agreement between the calculated and measured values."
"Dielectric constant and loss measurements made by three government laboratories (of the USSR, Canada, and the U. S. A.) are compared. The two materials measured were glasses. The measurements utilized cavity resonators in the H01n mode. The errors in dielectric constant reported by the laboratories were usually ± 0.3 percent; actual differences between laboratories of the average corrected results were only ± 0.05 percent. The loss tangent results disagreed when multimoding occurred; however, the errors may be as low as ± 0.00002 or ± 3 percent, whichever is the larger, if multimoding is avoided."
"A new method is proposed for rot detection in wood poles such as those used for electricity distribution purposes. The test method has been developed to meet the problem of detection of concealed ground-line rot in full length preservative treated poles and appears to be capable of successfully achieving this end. A resonant sonic vibration technique is employed which is capable of detecting seriously defective poles not at present accessible to inspection. The technique is essentially nondestructive in nature, and provides a degree of precision and security not formerly available. A device employing the technique is described, which is suitable for use by workers of the caliber of those now employed in the detection of defective power poles."
"An inexpensive thermistor-type digital temperature integrator for temperatures from 40 to 110°F is described. The baseline temperature above which integration occurs is adjustable from 40 to 60°F. The digital counter readout is in units of day-°F with 0.1 day-°F resolution and has an accuracy within ±2 percent of the indicated value."
"Measurements have been made at 56.2 GHz of reflection coefficients at the junction of two sections of 0.074- by 0.148-in rectangular waveguide, which are offset in the E or H plane. Special precautions were taken to preserve identical internal dimensions of the two sections at the junction. A special fixture was built to allow controlled offset movements. The experimental data show good agreement with theoretical calculations. This data was obtained with the object of setting tolerances on waveguide alignment for acceptable reflections at waveguide flange junctions in rectangular waveguide at millimeter wave frequencies."
    "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
  "The application of superconducting direct-current comparators to the measurement of resistance ratios is described. One comparator consists of a binary set of ratios between 1:1 and 160:1 providing for self-calibration by a buildup procedure. A second comparator exhibiting discrete ratios of 1:1, 10:1, and 100:1 is also described. Ratio uncertainty of less than 1 part in 109 is achieved by enclosing the ratio windings in overlapping toroidal superconducting shields. Superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUID's) serve as flux sensors for the comparators. One of these current comparators is used to calibrate a 100-Ω:1-Ω resistive divider, which at a current of 10 mA exhibits a self-heating error of 0.0023 ppm."
"The ac and dc errors of cryogenic current comparators with toroidal-shield configurations are reported. Based on these experiments and on theoretical considerations, geometric parameters of the superconducting shields could be determined, which govern the errors. These results may be used for the construction of cryogenic current comparators with predictably low errors. It seems to be possible to decrease the dc error far below our present resolution limit of 3 X 10-11."
"The design and operation of a cryogenic voltage comparator system for precision 2e/h measurements is described. Major improvements embodied in the new 2e/h system include the use of 1) a single microstripline-coupled Josephson tunnel junction to obtain usable step voltages up to 10 mV at 10.0 GHz, 2) a cryogenic voltage divider comprised of two resistors whose ratio is calibrated with a low-temperature dc current comparator, 3) a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) null detector, and 4) superconducting switching. The accuracy of the present 196:1 divider system is estimated to be about 2 parts in 108 on the basis of preliminary tests and is limited by resistor self-heating during calibration."
"An experimental cryogenic measuring system, employing the dc and ac Josephson effects, which has been used to monitor the National Physical Laboratory maintained voltage standard is described in detail. Results obtained with this system over a period of 1 years are presented and compared with those from a system using room temperature potentiometry, which has already been described. Emphasis is laid on experience gained with cryogenic components of the system. The final section outlines a design for a portable Josephson apparatus based on experience with the present system, which would be capable of calibrating standard cells with maximum possible precision."
"In Section I a report on high precision voltage comparisons between the mean EMF of the former PTB voltage standard (consisting of a group of 39 saturated Weston cells) and the Josephson reference voltage is presented. The experiments were carried out with a total uncertainty (1 σ) of 4 parts in 108. The measured rate of change of the mean EMF during a 1¾ year period was - 1.3 X 10-7 V per year. This voltage stability is sufficient to maintain the unit of voltage by this group of standard cells for several months until a new comparison with the Josephson reference voltage becomes necessary. Due to the effects of thermal EMF's in the millivolt circuit of the measuring system used at present, the Josephson reference voltage (≈3. mV) is only stable during a short time. In Section II a prototype cryogenic voltage standard developed at PTB is described. By immersing the main measurement components into the superfluid liquid helium bath, a long term voltage stability can be achieved. These components include the cryogenic resistive divider, consisting of a new copper alloy, and the SQUID null detector. The resistance ratio of the cryogenic resistive divider of 320:1 is determined by a ten-decade inductive voltage comparator operating at 84 Hz. The effects of power dissipation introduce only errors of second order because the currents in the calibration mode and the measurement mode are the same."
"The experimental program outlined is directed toward the utilization of the ac Josephson effect to maintain surveillance of the unit of EMF in Canada. Preliminary results indicate a weighted mean value of 2e/h = 483 593.0 ± 0.2 (0.4 ppm) GHz/VNRc(73) which is, at present, not precise enough to detect the small drifts normally encountered in the mean value of the standard cell group upon which VNRC is based."
"A system is described whereby precise intercomparisons of standard cells are accomplished under full computer control. The results obtained indicate accuracies (one standard deviation) of ±10 nV from which the individual values of the standard cells in a maintaining group of ten cells are estimated to be accurate to ±20 nV. The major source of indeterminacy continues to be the variation of standard cell EMF due to temperature, mechanical vibration, etc."
"The conceptual requirements, the design, and the initial performance of the prototype switching for connecting standard cells to an automatic measurement system are described. Features of the design include random selection of two cells at a time, inversion of connection polarity on command, modular construction for expansion, and less than 10-nV residual uncompensated error voltage. Also described briefly are controllers for manual operation of the switches and the rudimentary high-resolution digital potentiometer used to complete the measurement system. Results of tests of the switching and observations of the prototype system performance are presented."
"Operating experience and difficulties encountered in a 12-year use of the automatic standard cell test facility are reviewed. The facility was designed to acommodate 40 cells on test and to resolve the difference between the voltage of each test cell and that of a reference cell to 0.1 μV. The large amount of data obtained has led to a more complete characterization of cell performance and has identified an unexpected impulse-type response in unsaturated standard cells exposed to a varying thermal environment. Difficulties of various types have been expected over the operating period. An unexpected type of failure occurred, however, with snapaction switches used on low-voltage logic lines, and similar failures may be anticipated in new designs."
"In cooperation with five industrial standards laboratories, the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) studied the feasibility of establishing a regional volt maintenance and surveillance program in the greater Los Angeles, Calif., area. The objectives were to improve surveillance, to reduce dependence on NBS, and to have each laboratory maintain its unit of voltage to within 1 ppm of the U. S. legal volt. A two-phase program was established, the first to characterize the five laboratories and the second to carry out the surveillance. After 3 years all laboratories were found to be maintaining their unit to within better than 1 ppm of the U. S. legal volt."
"Groups of standard cells are needed to maintain the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) volt between periodic reassignments via 2e/h. An enclosure to hold six standard cells has been designed and three enclosures have been assembled. The enclosures consist of four concentric aluminum cylinders separated by foamed polystyrene insulation. Two of the four cylinders are controlled, an outer one by a platinum resistance thermometer and dc amplifier and the inner one at 30°C by a second platinum resistance thermometer and an ac transformer-ratio bridge followed by a phase-sensitive detector, a dc amplifier, and a heater. The innermost of the four cylinders is a thermally lagged cell compartment. The temperature excursions over periods of at least several days were found to be less than 20 μK, thus having a negligible effect on the standard cell EMF's."
"The EMF's of standard cells are now being transferred between laboratories over a 1½-km cable with a precision of 4 parts in 108 to provide an instantaneous comparison of the 2e/h and ϒp´ experiments being carried out at the two facilities. This is accomplished by transferring a constant current that produces a 1-V drop across standard resistors located at both ends of the cable."
"An increase in the accuracy of the gyromagnetic ratio of the proton can be achieved by determining the magnitude of a calculable magnetic field to higher accuracy. Such an increase requires dimensional measurements of a physical object to an absolute accuracy of a few parts in ten million. A unique computer-controlled automated measurement system for carrying out such measurements has been developed at the U. S. National Bureau of Standards and is currently in operation at its nonmagnetic facility. This measurement system provides an order of magnitude improvement over all previous measurements."
"A recently completed calculable cross capacitor in conjunction with a previously described collection of ac and dc bridges has made possible a highly accurate measurement of the farad and the ohm. The cross capacitor and its auxiliary equipment, as well as those components of the measurement system which have not been covered in prior publications, are described in detail. The measurements indicate that the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) unit of capacitance is given by FNBS = 1 F + 1.787 μF, and that the NBS unit of resistance is given by ;Ω NBS = 1 Ω - 0.819 μΩ."
"An apparatus, based on the analog intergrator principle, is designed to effect a 1-nF-108-Ω transfer with reversed dc, by permitting a digital interval timer to measure the product RC, repeatedly if necessary. Both systematic and random errors have been significantly reduced, and correction to data is not required. The apparatus is simple to construct and operate, and its transfer standard error is estimated to be ±0.23 ppm."
"A high-accuracy voltage divider based on the Hamon/Rayleigh ratio principle has been made for the absolute measurement of the volt and also for building up the voltage scale to 10 kV. It is composed of 100 equal resistors of nominal value 100 kΩ and an adjustable 100-kΩ resistor with taps at 10 and 1 kΩ. By using appropriate connections, a total 10-MΩ divider with 1-kΩ output is constituted in which various voltage ratios up to 104 can be obtained. A guard circuit is provided to minimize the leakage currents. The calibration of the divider is simplified by using parallel or series-parallel connection of resistance elements so that all comparisons are made at a ratio of 1:1. For 10 kV only, two comparisons are required. The measurement of performance of the divider and the analysis of errors have been made. The most important factor affecting the voltage ratio is self heating, for which a correction is necessary. The total error would be less than 0.58 ppm."
"The application of a current comparator capacitance bridge to the measurement of the error of power frequency wattmeters at zero and very low power factors is described. The desired voltage, current, and power factor, leading or lagging, are established with a capacitive-type artificial load. The power factor is adjusted with reference to a loss-free gas-dielectric capacitor to within 1 × 10-5 or to an accuracy of 1 percent, whichever is greater, and voltage and current to an accuracy of better than 1 percent. Results of the measurements on representative commercially available electrodynamic and electronic wattmeters are given."
"The design of an instrument for the automatic comparison of an ac voltage with a stable dc source is described. A differential multijunction thermal converter is used as an rms/dc converter with an FET-switched input amplifier for ac/dc substitution. The output voltages of the rms/dc converter with ac and dc input voltages are sampled and stored, and the difference amplified and displayed on a panel meter or chart recorder. Accuracy is ±20 ppm of input ranges of 10-200 V at frequencies of 50 Hz-1 kHz, and maximum full scale deflection sensitivity is 0.01 percent of input range. The instrument may be used either as an rms comparator with a linear voltage scale or as a mean-square comparator with a linear power scale."
"In order to establish alternating current and voltage standards, various types of thermal current and voltage converters have been constructed. From their detailed analysis, the specifications and characteristics have been determined. These converters have been used in a circular international comparison. A precise comparator of 0.1-ppm resolution has been also constructed. The estimated accuracy of current converters is better than 10 ppm up to 100 kHz and that of voltage converters is better than 25 ppm up to 50 kHz and 30 ppm at 100 kHz."
"The design of an electrodynamic instrument for measurement of ac power at line frequency is described. The deflection of its moving coil is kept at zero by passing alternating and direct currents simultaneously through both coils. An automatic control circuit generates the balancing direct current related to the ac power to be measured. The high resolution of the instrument, 2 × 10-7 of rated power, makes a detailed investigation of its performance in the error range below 1 × 10-5 possible."
"A compensated current comparator system to establish the United States legal unit of electrical energy at the National Bureau of Standards at energy levels of approximately 30 and 60 kJ is described. Analysis of the system uncertainties and experimental data indicates that the registrations of three standard type watthour meters were determined with total estimated uncertainties of about 30 ppm at unity power factor (PF) and 40 ppm at 0.5 PF. Of these uncertainties, 18 ppm represents the three standard deviation bound for the effects of random errors, and the remainder the root sum of squares of bounds to possible calibration and systematic effects. These results indicate that it should now be possible to disseminate the energy unit with uncertainties less than the presently quoted 500 ppm."
"Average electric power can be measured by a system that samples voltages and currents at predetermined intervals. The sampled signals are digitized and the result is computed by numerical integration. The response of the system agrees with that of a standard electrodynamic wattmeter within 0.02 percent from dc to 1 kHz, with the possible exception of zero power factor measurements. Measurements up to 5 kHz can be made with somewhat greater uncertainties."
"The design and performance of an audio-frequency four-terminal resistance bridge is described which compares resistors from 1 to 0.001 Ω over a frequency range of 50 Hz-10 kHz. Current scaling establishes equal voltage across the resistors, permitting the standard to have the larger value and most optimum design while dissipating less power than the unknown. An amplifier-aided two-stage current transformer forms the ratio arms. Ratios of 1, 2, 4, 5, 10, and 20 are available, and a maximum applied current of 200 A is accommodated. Bridge ratio errors are less than 2 × 10-6 in both magnitude and phase at frequencies up to 1 kHz, increasing to 2 × 10-5 at 10 kHz. Simple transformer scaling techniques are described for producing accurate and stable resistance standards at the 0.001-Ω level."
"The purpose of this paper is twofold: 1) to show how extrapolation techniques can be used to obtain well-defined and versatile measuring systems; and 2) to apply such techniques to the measurement of four-pair admittances with two-pair bridges. When four-pair admittances are large, measurements with two-pair bridges have limited precision, but with reasonably small admittances, measurement precision is essentially equal to that attained with four-pair bridges."
"Several electronic circuits are described which increase the input resistance of inductive voltage dividers up to 109 Ω at frequencies below 10 Hz. One of the circuits has been used to build an isolating inductive voltage divider consisting of 8 decades and having an input resistance of 109 Ω. The in-phase errors are less than 2 parts in 10+8. This inductive voltage divider is the main part of an ac potentiometer for the precise measurement of low value resistors with comparatively high lead resistances. Lead resistances of 50 Ω generate errors of only 1 part in 107. Apart from the preceding application, the inductive voltage dividers with high input impedance may also serve as a component of a voltage comparator. Such a comparator, for example, permits the calibration of a resistive voltage divider which is used for maintaining the unit of voltage via the Josephson effect and which, for such a purpose, is kept at a temperature of 2 K. An uncertainty of 5 parts in 10+10 is achieved for the measurement of a 1:1 ratio, even if the ratios differ by a few parts in 103 from 1:1."
"The angle and length transducers (\"Circap\" and \"Lincap\") utilize a circular or linear capacitor which consists of four rings or four cylinders, respectively, divided into two segments. A rotating or laterally moving shield increases the capacitance in one segment and decreases it in the other. The position of the shield is indicated by the voltage drop across the unshielded parts of these segments. This voltage is measured in an ac excited bridge using a precision inductive voltage divider. Prototypes of the Circap and Lincap have been constructed and tested. Results show that angle can be measured with a standard deviation of about 0.1\" and length with a standard deviation of about 0.2 μm."
"A computer-controlled dc bridge that uses several techniques to obtain a resistance measurement to 0.01 percent in under 2 ms is described. These include the use of FET range switching, the fast current output of a digital-to-analog converter, a voltage-clamped detector, an unusual current ratio circuit, a fast range-test method, and a PROM memory to reduce computer time. These techniques are discussed generally and some speed versus accuracy data are given for a specific bridge."
"A new gyrator using switched mode operations and its applications to very low-frequency signal measurements are described. The proposed method is particularly effective for obtaining equivalent inductances with large values (≈ 107 H). Thus variable filters and tuning devices in very low frequency regions can be constructed with the new gyrator. The basic arrangement, principles, characteristics, and applications of the switching mode gyrator are presented. Experimental results measured for ultralow frequency electrical signals are also shown."
"The development and testing of a technique capable of measuring and displaying the instantaneous flux density profile in the airgaps of ac electromagnetic machines is described. An over-layed system of flexible printed-circuit coils is used, which permits measurements to be made under rotating conditions in airgaps as small as 0.3 mm, giving good profile definition over the whole of the airgap. The signals are processed on line by a digital computer. The ability to cover large areas and small airgaps with on-line signal processing gives the technique considerable advantage over existing methods."
"The performance of Gunn-effect oscillators considered for use as signal sources for microwave attenuation measurement is described, with particular attention being given to the determination of amplitude stability. The performance of an intermediate frequency receiver, using integrated-circuit solid-state components, is described. The results indicate that a resolution of 0.0002 dB can be achieved with the simple parallel substitution IF receiver circuit."
"A unique portable system has been developed for measuring RF attenuation over a dynamic range of 62 dB at 30 MHz. A superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) is the basis of the system. A SQUID is a loop of superconducting metal closed by a weak point contact called a Josephson junction, operating in liquid helium. It converts variations in magnetic flux to periodic variations in impedance which are sensed at microwave frequencies. This provides a convenient natural means of measuring electrical quantities such as voltage, current, power, and attenuation."
"Various shortcomings of modulated subcarrier attenuator calibrators are discussed. Very precise attenuation measurements on short lengths of waveguide have been obtained by inserting into the subcarrier channel a tuned reflectometer system which contains a waveguide switch for setting the zero. Using this technique, total spreads of less than 0.0013 dB have been obtained at 4 GHz in 10 completely independent measurements on the same unknown. The full theory of this method is given in the Appendix. The total range of a modulated subcarrier system has been extended to over 100 dB by using a 1-W microwave oscillator and placing in the subcarrier channel a rotary attenuator with very good resettability and a fully matched two-path configuration that contains two waveguide switches and the unknown."
"The paper describes a computer controlled attenuation measurement system. This has been developed for the measurement of the attenuation of the British Post Office Research Department field trial TE01-mode circular waveguide route. Measurements must be made at close frequency spacing over the whole waveguide band from 32 to 110 GHz. In order to achieve the high measurement speed which is required, automated equipment is essential. The single-trip frequency-shift pulse technique is used. The measurement standards are a set of rotary vane attenuators driven by high resolution stepping motors which are particularly simple to interface to the computer. High accuracy is achieved, and a complete measurement of more than 20 000 individual points can be made in less than 120 h including transporting and setting up the equipment, which is fully mobile."
"A method of relating the properties of flanged waveguide couplings to the Q-factor, attenuation and resonant frequency of a waveguide cavity, of which they form a part, is discussed. The theory of the technique is developed and results of measurements, at 7.3 GHz, on cavities fabricated from sections of WG15 (WR112) are presented. Comparing these results with theory, the technique appears capable of detecting flange losses of less than 0.0005 dB and phase changes across the flange of less than 0.05 degrees."
"Many broad-band devices unfortunately exhibit voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) spikes within narrow frequency bands, and such devices should be tested continuously over the whole frequency range to identify the spikes. The time required for testing is important and a direct-reading display, or record, is a major convenience. The system described uses a swept-frequency slotted-line technique to give a direct-reading record of VSWR over the frequency range 2-18 GHz within 30 s, without degrading the accuracy of the technique."
"A general evaluation procedure is described for calibration of a linear complex reflectometer (network analyzer) and for two-port measurements. New closed-form formulas and procedures are given for two practical cases: 1) calibration or measurement with two known standards and a sliding termination; 2) calibration or measurement by one standard and two different sliding terminations. The reflection coefficient magnitudes and phases of these sliding terminations need not be known. The closed-form formulas make it possible to determine calibration constants by direct calculation without approximations or complicated multivariable iterations."
"A calorimeter for the direct measurement of effective efficiency of transfer standard thermistor mounts is described. Since calorimetric determination of effective efficiency is insensitive to mismatch error and since the number of steps in the calibration procedure are reduced from usual practice, it is possible to provide an improved accuracy of calibration. Furthermore, since calibration at several frequencies can be performed in a reasonable time without removing the thermistor mount from the calorimeter, this improvement in accuracy can be realized across the bandwidth of the thermistor mount. The response time constant of the calorimeter is 1.5 min for a representative thermistor mount. The results of the calibration are displayed as an X-Y plot of effective efficiency versus frequency."
"As a power detector in the millimeter-wave region, a matched-load-type thermoelectric transducer is proposed. Experimental investigations have been carried out to obtain the design criteria of this device. The investigations have two aspects. One of them is macroscopic and related to the matching characteristics of the transducer. The other is microscopic and related to the sensitivity characteristics. The analysis of the temperature distribution on the power-sensing element is the main problem in the latter respect. Through these investigations, tentative design criteria have been obtained. Transducers manufactured on the basis of these criteria have shown excellent performance as practical millimeter-wave power detectors. Outstanding characteristics of this device are low VSWR and small deviations of the sensitivity in the entire waveguide frequency band. The stability of this device over long periods of use was also confirmed."
"A new dual waveguide flow calorimeter power meter used as a master reference standard in a top-echelon calibration laboratory is described. It operates at 1-20-W level and has been produced in 9 standard waveguide sizes from WG10 (WR284, R32) to WG22 (WR28, R320). These all have a VSWR 1.05 and a flat and stable RF/dc substitution efficiency over the full waveguide bandwidth. Referring only to dc standards, the Effective Efficiency Factor can be measured with built-in facilities. Comparison measurements with U. K. national standards have shown agreement within ±0.2 percent over 3 years."
"Measurements of effective efficiency on standard wave-guide bolometer mounts at microwave frequencies performed at the National Electrical Institute (IEN), Turin, Italy, during international comparisons and national calibration activities over a period of several years show a very good repeatability and prove the reliability of these mounts as traveling standards and reference for microwave power calibrations."
"A set of four electrically calibrated calorimeters is currently in use at the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards to calibrate and test devices for measuring average laser power in the range from 100 μW to 1 W and energies in the range 0.03 to 10 J. Laser sources used with these calorimeters are argon, krypton, helium-neon and neodymium-doped YAG, all CW, and pulsed YAG with pulse energies about 0.1 J and pulsewidths of about 200 μs and 30 ns. The calorimeters have been intercompared as a check on systematic errors. The national standard is taken as the average for three of the calorimeters of the current C4 design, because these were designed to permit better measurements of the absorptance and window transmittance. Deviations from the group average are -0.12, -0.01, and +0.13 percent. The earlier standard C3-1 differs from the group average by +0.21 percent."
"Dielectric and magnetic properties are measured by assuming an electrical model for the specimen and its electrodes or windings; the accuracy of the final result depends mainly on the validity of the model. Distributed parameters may have to be assumed for frequencies above 10 MHz. Measurements on dielectrics may be of two different capacitances for specimen in and out, or of two capacitances adjusted to be nearly equal. British and American practices are different in allowing for edge effects in a disk specimen. The liquid-immersion method is of limited use in measuring dielectric loss. For frequencies up to 1 MHz, bridge methods are recommended; at higher frequencies, resonance methods. For frequencies at which distributed parameters must be assumed, there are coaxial line and various waveguide and resonator methods. For 10-5 Hz to 20 GHz there are time-domain methods of somewhat less sensitivity. Magnetic properties are not usually reproducible enough to justify accuracy better than a few parts in 1000. Bridge methods exist for both low- and high-flux densities; at high fluxes there is also the wattmeter method. A special method is used for measuring the properties of magnetic recording tape."
"A waveguide bridge capable of measuring dielectric loss down to 5 μrad at frequencies of 10-35 GHz is described. A major uncertainty was the value of the wall loss. This has been resolved by measuring the wall loss of the specimen arm both with air and dielectric filling. The results demonstrate that the wall loss of a dielectric-filled waveguide can be calculated from the theoretical expression corrected by a factor which is the ratio of observed to calculated loss for an air-filled guide. The uncertainty in the determination of dielectric loss is reduced to at most a few microradians."
"A simple nondestructive method is presented for the measurement of the complex permittivity ϵr of materials. The reflection coefficient ρ of a flanged open-ended rectangular waveguide placed, next to a flat large sample is computed by a variational method as a function of the dielectric constant. Computer-generated charts and an optimization computer program are elaborated. ϵr can then be easily determined from the measured amplitude and phase angle of the reflected wave in the waveguide. The method is best suited for materials having high dielectric constants and large losses."
"A comparison has been made between cavity and open-resonator measurements of permittivity ϵ' and dielectric loss angle δ at 35 GHz. Two comparisons were made, the first using one set of samples of unsintered polytetrafluoroethylene measured in both systems and the second using two sets of similar samples, one set measured in each system, of a high density polyethylene (Rigidex 2000), cut from the same rod. The measured values of ϵ' and δ obtained by the two systems agreed within the limits of the experimental errors. The standard deviations obtained for ϵ' and δ were 0.0021 and 2.1 μrad, respectively. A discussion of the uncertainties associated with each measured parameter is given."
"There are three methods for the determination of the dielectric properties of material in sheet form: the Hartshorn-Ward 'resonance-substitution' technique (BS 2067), the Lynch method using a transformer bridge (BS 4542) and the two fluid immersion method. These methods may be used at frequencies up to 1 MHz, and, in this range, it is shown that the two fluid immersion method offers advantages for permittivity measurement but is not suitable for determination of tan δ. A modified form of Q meter is then described for use in the frequency range 1-100 MHz where application of the resonance substitution method permits dielectric loss measurements to be made with a precision of better than five microradians. Measurements at microwave frequencies are made by resonant cavity techniques and comparison is made between the value of permittivity determined at 1 MHz by a cross checkable two fluid method, and those calculated from the high frequency values of permittivity and dielectric loss."
"Determining dielectric loss as a function of frequency in high frequency coaxial cables is a requirement for efficient design of long cable systems. A method for determining dielectric loss based on attenuation and phase delay measurements along with low frequency capacitance data and nominal cable specifications is presented in Part I. The pi-point method of making precision phase delay measurements is reviewed and contrasted to earlier methods in Part II. A 10-nmi-length of SF ocean cable at frequencies up to 10 MHz is considered as an example. For this case the number of wavelengths N is approximately 1000 at 10 MHz. A measurement technique is described and a test setup, including circuitry, is presented for making pi-point phase measurements and for determining N with zero error. Measurement errors, converted to equivalent frequency errors, with detector noise, mismatch, attenuator phase shift, and frequency counter errors being the significant contributors are considered in Part III. When all worst case errors are added, the accuracy of the delay measurement is better than 0.3 ppm at 10 MHz for the sample case under study."
"Principles underlying the short-circuited-waveguide measurement method and a general computer program for precisely calculating dielectric properties of materials from such measurements are described briefly. The program facilitates the use of the widely applicable short-circuited-line technique for accurate work with high-loss as well as low-loss materials. The program is applicable to measurements taken on coaxial lines or on rectangular or circular-waveguide systems. Corrections are included for the influence of the slot in slotted-waveguide sections, and differences in the velocity of propagation in air and in a vacuum are taken into account. If these factors are ignored, errors of about 0.5 percent in the determination of the dielectric constant may result Corresponding errors in the dielectric-loss-factor and loss-tangent values can range up to 2 or 3 percent. Much greater errors result when certain approximations that are valid for low-loss materials are used for calculations on materials of higher loss. The program described avoids these problems through use of the general complex equations and exact relationships. Other general characteristics of the program include flexibility in the character and range of acceptable input data."
"One of the most useful methods of determining the electronic conduction properties of solid materials is the Hall effect. For high-resistivity low charge carrier mobility materials, a microwave measurement offers distinct advantages over dc and low frequency methods. The essential features of a sensitive apparatus employing a bimodal TE113 cavity for measurements at 33 GHz are reported, together with a review of the conditions under which the interpretation of the measurements in terms of a Hall mobility are valid. In order to obtain accurate determinations of permittivity, conductivity, and the charge carrier concentration, it is found that sample holder effects must be included in the relevant cavity perturbation formulas. Measurements on n-and p-type Si and GaP have been made and are in agreement with accepted results."
"A new time domain measurement technique to obtain the relative complex permeability , μ* and permittivity ϵ* of materials at frequencies above 10 GHz is described. The main feature is the use of a 400-ps-wide RF pulse-excitation waveform that furnishes the necessary spectral amplitude in the 9-to 16-GHz frequency range. The delay line configuration and instrumentation are similar to a previously reported lower frequency system where a sample of solid material less than 5 mm thick is cut to fit into a coaxial sample holder. Experimental values of μ*and ϵ* are given for Teflon and a ferrite material for measurements made in two segments spanning 0.4-10 GHz and 9-16 GHz. These show good agreement with data obtained from direct frequency domain measurements. A discussion is included on the amplitude spectra of a step-recovery diode and tunnel diode pulse generator and their application as time domain sources. Considerations for the optimum choice of sample thickness are also given."
"A high-quality superconducting delay line now makes it possible to perform direct oscillographic measurements of the picosecond transition times of very fast electrical signals that do not furnish pretriggers. A 15-m superconducting delay line package has been assembled. The package consists of connectors, connector adapters, normally conducting input/output air lines, and a 15 m length of a miniature 1.6-mm superconducting coaxial transmission line. The package exhibits an attenuation of 0.8 dB at 10 GHz and a system 10-90 percent transition time of 18 ps. Some applications of this delay line are shown. They include the measurement of the pulse output from a mercury switch and the transient response of a traveling-wave oscilloscope."
"The method of Fourier spectrometry has been employed with great effect in the measurement of the optical, and hence dielectric, properties of materials in the submillimeter-wave region. Improved experimental techniques, including the use of cooled detectors, phase modulation, and stabilized sources, have led to higher radiometric accuracy in these measurements. This paper discusses transmission measurements on low-loss polymers, obtained with a Michelson interferometer and a lamellar grating interferometer. The results demonstrate the high accuracy with which absorption coefficients can be measured for low-loss materials. The factors which limit the absolute accuracy of the measurements are discussed."
"Errors in the measurement of the submillimeter wave-length spectra of low loss dielectrics are thought to arise from three possible sources: a \"light-pipe\" effect, diffraction, and interface effects. It is shown that only the last of these effects is important except when the wavelength exceeds 0.5 cm. The corrections for interfacial reflections calculated from equations presented by Pardoe are shown not to be applicable for all wavelengths."
"A summary is given of recent developments in dispersive Fourier transform techniques for the measurement of the frequency variation of the complex refractive index in the range 100 GHz-9 THz. Progress in overcoming the special problems associated with liquid and solid specimens of medium and strong absorption is reported and the current measurement capability is discussed with the aid of experimental results obtained using specially constructed equipment."
"The National Bureau of Standards has two primary standards for frequency and the unit of time. They are both cesium devices and are designated NBS-4 and NBS-5. The design of NBS-5 is discussed in detail, including its relationship to its predecessor NBS-III, and a brief description of NBS-4 is given. NBS-4 and NBS-5 have been used since January 1973 for a total of twelve calibrations of the NBS Atomic Time Scale. The application of pulsed microwave excitation, and the use in the accuracy evaluations of frequency shifts due to known changes in the exciting microwave power are discussed. Measurements of the atomic velocity distributions are reported. A stability of 9 × 10-15 derived from the comparison of NBS-4 and NBS-5 is reported for averaging times of 20 000 s, and data on accuracy are given. Results obtained to date give an evaluated accuracy of 1-2 × 10-13 with indications that this accuracy may be improved in the future. The bias-corrected frequencies of NBS-4 and NBS-5 agree to within (1 ± 10) × 10-13 with the value obtained for NBS-III in 1969-which value is preserved in the rate of the NBS Atomic Time Scale."
"Theoretical expressions for the second-order Doppler and cavity phase dependent frequency shifts in atomic beam frequency standards are derived, and the concept of momenta of the velocity distribution function is introduced. The effects of frequency modulation of the microwave excitation are also described by analytical expressions. Momenta of the velocity distribution function which can be experimentally derived from the central part of the Ramsey pattern are given for the National Research Council of Canada frequency standards Cs III and Cs V. The values of the frequency shift arising from the second-order Doppler effect obtained for different operating conditions are in close agreement with those calculated from the truncated Maxwellian velocity distributions characteristic of the best fit with the experimental resonance patterns. The frequency shift arising from mistuning of the microwave cavity is also calculated. This shift is dependent on both the velocity distribution and the servo-system frequency modulation employed. The operating conditions required for cancellation of this shift are determined."
"From the measured static resonance curve of a cesium beam tube, corrections can be derived for second-order Doppler shift and cavity phase error. For the calculation Fourier transforms are used, which also produce the velocity distribution of the atoms. Data are given for the distortion of the resonance curve from which the corrections can be derived applicable in the case of very slow square wave frequency modulation. A method is also given for calculating corrections for faster modulation rates where the time-of-flight effects are no longer negligible. However, quadrature components will now occur in the beam signal, and their effect on the clock servo is discussed."
"A recently developed theoretical analysis has shown that it is possible to measure the Allan variance (a time-domain measure of frequency instability) without any statistical treatment of data from an electronic counter. The measurement is made via high-pass filtering of phase noise with a test set similar to the one used for frequency-domain measurements. The unique test set described in this paper relies on this principle and is capable of measuring the short-term frequency instability of the best quartzcrystal oscillators in both time and frequency domains."
"The noise performance of an oscillator can be given either in the spectral or in the time domain. Two types of apparatus are generally necessary to measure these noise characteristics, spectral analyzers and frequency counters. The system described uses spectral density to time domain conversion and measures both the short term frequency stability and the phase spectral density of an oscillator. Bias functions, depending on the spectral density, are calculated. They are used to determine systematic errors introduced by the apparatus."
"The process of frequency synthesis is the step-by-step approximation to the normalized output frequency. In this paper, three different approximation algorithms are briefly discussed, namely continued fractions, Cantor products, and Engel series. Their common disadvantage is their uniqueness; it is shown that this difficulty may be overcome by application of the new general approximation theorem, but the solution can be provided only by computer. Approximation errors are generally small, sometimes smaller than 1 × 10-12. The advantage of modified Cantor products or Engel series algorithms is the possibility of standardizing the hard ware of frequency synthesizers, particularly if the IC technology and the use of off-the-shelf circuits is emphasized."
"This paper describes the TIMATION II satellite time transfer experiments between the U. S. Naval Observatory (USNO) and the Royal Greenwich Observatory (RGO) in 1972, and between the U. S. and Australia, in 1973. The error in the experiment conducted between the RGO and USNO agreed internally and with external calibrations to within about 0.33 μs. The experiment between the U. S. and Australia agreed internally and externally to approximately 0.1 μs."
"Experiments performed with two 633-nm He-Ne lasers stabilized by 127I2 intracavity saturated absorption are described. In particular, the measurements of the frequency separation between the various iodine hyperfine components accessible with these lasers and evaluation of their pressure broadening, pressure shift, and Zeeman displacement are reported. Finally, the most important factors which limit reproducibility are discussed."
"The mechanical construction of the stabilized lasers, and their electronic control equipment, are described. A free-running stability of 10-10 for 0.1 s and a servo-locked stability of better than 10-12 for 10 s counting time has been measured. Hyperfine structure intervals in both 127I2 and 129I2 with standard deviation of 12 kHz confirm earlier values."
"The experiments investigate the performance of iodine-stabilized lasers under a variety of conditions. In particular, the influences of offsets in the control electronics, the magnitude of the frequency modulation necessary to stabilize the laser, and the effects of laser power and iodine pressure variations are considered. The results demonstrate a reproducibility of better than 1 × 10-10."
"It is proposed that the frequency differences between CO2 laser ines and the harmonics of these differences might be used as intermediate frequencies to bridge the gap between microwave frequency standards and infrared frequencies to simplify absolute measurements of the latter. Tungsten-nickel point-contact diodes would be used as harmonic generators and mixers. The preliminary results of an experimental feasibility study are presented. A description of a novel two-frequency laser, built for this study, is given. It is shown that beat frequencies between differences up to 715 GHz and microwave frequency harmonics up to the twelfth can be observed; interactions with at least the third harmonic of a CO2 frequency difference are possible, producing signals with an S/N of 51 dB in a 2.2-s time constant receiver; attempts to observe a beat between a CO2 frequency and the seventh harmonic of a difference were not successful."
"In the 15 years since Froome achieved the generally accepted value for the velocity of light as 299 792.5 km/s with an accuracy of about ±1 ×10-6, work has continued in many laboratories to improve this accuracy and to refine the value accepted for c. A summary is given of the major steps which have led to today's recommended value of c = 299 792 458 m/s, with an uncertainty of ±4 × 10-9, and questions are raised concerning the implications of these measurements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Only recently has a well-substantiated model of the low-pressure glow to arc transition become available as a result of a series of highly controlled experiments performed during the period 1958 to 1966. This model cites insulating particles at the cathode surface as responsible, due to their charging and subsequent breakdown which produce an initial burst of vapor. This paper consists of a review and critical evaluation of these experiments and an elucidation of the model."
"A high power crossed-field discharge device has been developed for use as a high voltage direct current interrupter. This device operates at low pressure (0.05 Torr), conducting current at a fixed voltage (~500 V) only in the presence of a weak magnetic field (~100 G) which is substantially perpendicular to the electric field between the electrodes. When the magnetic field is removed, ionization ceases and current interruption results. Physical phenomena occurring in this device have been investigated, including the glow-to-arc transition, gas cleanup, and high voltage breakdown. Based on the results of these investigations, switch tubes have been developed and successfully tested at the 2 kA, 100 kV level, with recovery rates in excess of 2 kV/μs. The availability of such devices will make possible many applications including HVDC circuit breakers, ac current limiters, and practical inductive energy storage."
"Because of its high energy content and a relatively low translational temperature, the plasma of an intense low pressure discharge in a molecular gas is suitable for deposition of thin films and growth of crystals. A simple theoretical approach for estimation of chemical equilibrium composition in such systems has been developed. This approach is useful for planning of experiments, and it opens a way for further, more rigorous theoretical investigations."
"Experimental methods for studying ion concentrations, free electron concentrations and other plasma properties of laboratory flames and rocket flames are briefly reviewed. The methods include microwave techniques, electrostatic probe methods, mass-spectrometry and spectrophotometry. Short bibliographies are provided to help the plasma chemist unfamiliar with the literature of combustion chemistry to identify quickly those papers in the field likely to be of interest to him."
"A strong interaction between an intense (0.4 ≤ν/≤≤2.2) relativistic electron beam and a fully ionized, mirror confined hydrogen plasma has been observed. The plasma was heated to multikilovolt average energies of (5-15 keV) per electron-ion pair, with optimum heating at the lowest effective diode impedance levels (high ν/γ). The existence of hot ions was demonstrated, and microwave, far-infrared and x-ray emissions were observed. Electron beam plasma heating was compared with direct axial current driven turbulent heating, and the interaction of the electron beam with a turbulent plasma was investigated."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "It is shown that the waveguide probe determinations of electron temperature of shock-heated plasma reported in the literature contain two errors. The major one is due to the use of an incorrect reference level for the plasma radiation temperature; the other is due to the use of an incorrect equation for relating the raw data to the electron plasma temperature. The effects of these errors are examined."
"The eigenmodes of the empty toroidal cavity, relevant for H. F. heating of toroidal plasmas, are calculated using a development in the inverse aspect ratio. The eigensolutions are classified as quasi-TE and quasi-TH modes according to their cylindrical limit. Two exceptional modes are found for which both the electric and the magnetic field in the axial direction are nonzero already to the lowest order. The existence of these modes is connected with the accidental degeneracy of the cylindrical TH1 and TE0 modes."
"An arrangement is described whereby atmospheric pressure flame plasmas are sampled into a quadrupole mass spectrometer for analysis and identification of each ion present. The principal difficulty encountered is that of obtaining a fully representative sample of gas without chemical reactions altering the composition. These problems are discussed in detail and it is concluded that only fast reactions, with relaxation times less than 1 μs, are capable of falsifying an ion spectrum. The ions present in combustion plasmas are described. Their kinetics of production by collisional and chemi-ionization processes, and recombination by both two and three-body schemes are measured for various flame compositions and temperatures. In addition, cross-sections are presented for reaction of H2O+ with various atoms and molecules, as wall as for dissociative attachment of electrons to HCl. As examples of thermodynamic information resulting from this type of study, the first hydration energies of a variety of positive ions are measured, as also are the ionization potentials of CaOH and SrOH."
"An extension to two dimensions of Raizer's analysis for the steady state, subsonic propagation of laser sparks is presented. A solution in closed form is obtained for a simplified, two dimensional energy equation, yielding both axial and radial temperature profiles as well as the relationship between incident laser intensity, laser radius and propagation velocity. The propagation mechanism is assumed to be thermal conduction and radiation losses are included in a phenomenological manner. The solution is obtained for a laser spark propagating in a channel and therefore can be used to investigate the effect of a boundary on spark propagation. The solution also allows calculation of the radial heat conduction parameter A introduced by Raizer for use in one dimensional approximations. Sample calculations are presented for air sparks of .15 and .50 cm radius."
"If the current in a \"vacuum arc\" surpasses a certain critical value a conspicuous and destructive phenomenon occurs at the anode, the ANODE CONSTRICTION INSTABILITY or ANODE SPOT FORMATION [1 - 10]. This paper will give a quantitative analysis of this phenomenon within the limits of a model which can be characterized by lateral homogenity, collision dominance and small electrode separation. Matching the various model regions results in a differential equation for the anodic spot area which exhibits an anode constriction instability of the \"explosive type\". A marginal instability criterion is derived and evaluated for various materials. This yields extensive information about the dependence of the constriction instability on the parameters of the experimental set up. The findings are compared with the experimental results and show satisfactory agreement within the limitations of experiments and theory."
"An analytical study of feedback stabilization of a continuum is done in the context of plasma confinement in a TOKAMAK device. Linear and nonlinear \"bang-bang\" feedback from discrete stations is investigated to find acceptable sensor and enforcer element geometries, compare their effectiveness, and predict the important parameters in their realization. The primary method used is an extension of the energy method."
"A simplified theory relating the collector current to the grid bias and other plasma parameters has been developed for a multiple-gridded electrostatic energy analyzer. Experiments have shown that the theory is only approximately valid, but the temperature obtained agrees closely with that from a Langmuir probe. It is found that temperature measurements depend on the grid bias potentials and the ratios of grid hole radius to electron Debye length. As a result, the conditions for the best performance of the energy analyzer as an accurate diagnostic device have been determined. A theory has also been worked out for the second-order change in the electron distribution function due to a cyclotron damped wave. This, together with experimental results, will provide valuable information on the thermal anisotropy of a plasma."
"The magnitudes of the harmonic fields which are generated when an alternating electric field is applied to a plasma are calculated. The plasma has a density gradient and is immersed in a uniform static magnetic field. The harmonics are very strongly excited near the upper hybrid frequency. A fluid theory is employed to describe the highly non linear behavior near resonance and a kinetic theory is used to find the effect of a finite temperature. It is found that kinetic effects are important if the radius of gyration is comparable in size to the scale length."
"The appearance of large amplitude oscillations and attenuation of beam current have been observed in high perveance electrically self-focused beams. These phenomena are shown to be due to instabilities produced by the interaction of the beam with its self-generated plasma. The critical current which must be exceeded for the instabilities to appear and the frequencies of the oscillations have been related to beam and background parameters and the dimensions of the experimental system."
"Information on the peak electron energy, angular spread, and current density of a relativistic electron beam propagating in a plasma column is obtained from measurements of two-absorber transmission ratios, anistropy, and intensity, respectively, of x-ray bremsstrahlung from thin target foils in the plasma. Measurements indicate a 10% loss in peak electron energy and a factor of two loss in peak beam intensity over the distance of the plasma column, and show a large angular spread in the beam."
"The theories of two decay-type parametric instabilities involving the lower hybrid mode in a magnetized plasma are presented. In the first of these, a pump wave of ordinary polarization causes the growth of a backward propagating transverse wave and a longitudinal lower hybrid wave, all with wave vectors perpendicular to the external magnetic field. The second instability concerns the parametric excitation of the upper hybrid and the lower hybrid modes."
"Two experimentally verified methods are presented for the injection of high-current relativistic electron beams (30 kA, 400 kV) into strong toroidal magnetic fields (1-8 kGauss). Injection is accomplished by contouring the current flow in the stalk of a field-emission cathode to perturb the flux lines only during beam generation. On conclusion of the emission process the perturbed lines can return to their original positions thereby trapping the beam."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "An integral balance technique for calculation of the electron energy distribution in a radiation-induced plasma is described. Results predict W-values reasonably well and compare favourably with more complicated Monte-Carlo calculations. The distribution found differs from that in a normal electrical discharge and is of interest in radiation-pumped laser research."
"The oscillations in the power reflection coefficient as a function of the normalized slab velocity are shown for electromagnetic waves obliquely incident on a relativistically moving uniaxial plasma slab with an infinitely strong magneto-static field parallel to the slab boundaries."
"An equation is derived for the polarization of a high-frequency EM wave propagating through a cold plasma. The polarization is determined in a coordinate system fixed to the wave-normal. It is assumed that the plasma density varies slowly in only one direction and that the wave-normal and the external magnetic field B make arbitrary angles with that direction."
"An application is made of lumped feedback to achieve stability of a distributed electromechanical system. A conducting elastic wire, placed in an axial magnetic field and carrying a current, exhibits instability at a certain threshold of magnetic pressure. The two dimensional transverse displacement of the wire is sampled and these signals are used to produce proportional feedback forces which allow stable equilibrium to be restored. A stability diagram is determined indicating the minimum feedback force to prevent static instability. For one station feedback, there is a maximum allowable feedback to prevent overstability. The pinch confinement of a plasma suffers from a similar corkscrew instability."
"Critical electric fields have been derived above which electrons are freely accelerated overcoming electrostatic instabilities driven by electron current. Two-stream instability and trapped particle instability are considered as the major drag effects on electrons."
"The analysis of the insulated antenna in a relatively dense medium is modified to apply to a thin cylindrical dipole antenna in a glass tube filled with a homogeneous cold plasma. Account is taken of the finite radius of the plasma column and of the thickness of the containing tube. Complex wavenumbers, distributions of current and charge, and driving-point admittances have been calculated for dipoles with electrical lengths up to two wavelengths. The effect of the thickness and permittivity of the glass tube on the wave number and admittance is determined. Numerous graphs and tables are provided."
"Solutions of the coupled, nonlinear, two-dimensional, non-steady equations of continuity, momentum, and energy have been obtained for an alternating current argon arc located in a constant diameter channel of a converging nozzle configuration. Real gas properties, radiation, convection, viscous dissipation, and turbulence effects were incorporated in the analysis. Spatial and timewise distributions determined included the flow, temperature and pressure fields, dynamic arc radius, and arc resistance gradient."
"Observations have been made of an rf multiple-ring discharge. A set of discretely-located plasma rings forms coaxially in the central portion of a cylindrical quartz tube on the axis of a cylindrical cavity excited in the TE011 mode. The rings fit closely inside the inner periphery of the quartz tube at pressures ranging from a few Torr to atmospheric, have a minor diameter of order 1/10 the tube diameter, and are spaced at intervals nearly equal to the tube diameter. Excitation of the degenerate companion TM111 mode results in asymmetrical tilting of the rings. Gas flow through the discharge tube results in a continuous unidirectional axial motion of the rings with new rings being abruptly formed toward the input end of the tube and contracting and vanishing abruptly as they move toward the exit end. A theory is developed which accounts for the observed phenomena."
"The technique for measuring electron temperature with an ion beam probe has been refined, the time resolution reduced and the limitations evaluated. The technique involves sequentially probing the same volume of plasma with beams of different ions species and using the observed secondary ion currents and the known ionizing cross sections to evaluate the electron temperature. Detailed measurements have been made on a hollow cathode discharge and the results compared with Langmuir probe and spectroscopic data. Quantitative results can only be obtained with K+-Na+ beams due to the lack of cross sections for other ion species. Theoretical cross sections provide qualitative indications of the system behaviour but are not sufficiently accurate to permit quantitative data reduction."
"An experimental scheme is proposed which seems to satisfy all the requirements for use of a high energy electron beam to initiate a thermonuclear plasma. One-dimensional expansion is utilized to obtain confinement times longer than the pulse length of the electron beams. A magnetic field is used to limit the radial heat conductivity, and this magnetic field also serves as a guiding field for the electron beams when they are in the vicinity of the target. Two opposing electron beams are employed and the forces produced by these counterstreaming current in the overlap region of the beams are sufficient to stop the beams within the target. Estimates made of all the critical factors indicate that beams achievable with current technology can be focused and stopped in T-D target 6 cm long with densities as low as 1021 cm-3. With a containing magnetic field of 750 kilogauss the containment time of the plasma is sufficiently long so that beam pulse lengths up to 8×10-9 sec can be used. Furthermore a positive fusion energy yield relative to the energy delivered to the target is predicted."
"A review is given of the key ideas involved in computing power spectral density functions from fast-Fourier-transformed plasma fluctuation data. Next a model is described which enables one to determine, from the computer-generated power spectra, the amplitude, frequency, and wavenumber of each of several waves present in the plasma. The potential of digitally implemented spectral analysis techniques as a plasma diagnostic tool is demonstrated in an experiment study of the evolution, and ultimate turbulent destruction, of a multi-mode drift wave spectrum."
"Measurements on RF power absorption in microwave discharges at 2.45 GHz at pressures from 1 to 30 Torr in N2 and from 1 to 500 Torr in Ar are described. A linear slow-wave structure of the strapped-bar type was employed for coupling RF energy to the plasma. From measurements on the plasma volume and on the total power absorbed, the variation with gas pressure of the RF power density in the plasma was obtained. For an incident power of 1 kW, power densities as high as 2-3 W.cm3 over relatively large plasma volumes could be achieved. The experimental data were used to calculate the pressure dependence of the electron density in an argon plasma, for an incident power of 1 kW."
"The authors have studied the electrostatic direct energy conversion scheme originally proposed by Post (1970). The two dimensional electrostatic numerical simulation approach follows the motion of an ion beam as it is focused, decelerated and collected in a high voltage direct converter structure. Both the self-consistent space charge field and the background field due to the periodic electrodes are included. Collection efficiency (η) results for low density mono-energetic ion beams show maxima in excess of 90% for parameters which minimize retrograde particles. The efficiency information was used to determine analytically optimum parameters which maximize η for an ion beam having a flat top energy distribution with a 3:1 energy spread. As the number density ni is increased up to and above a critical value nc (where space charge and focusing fields are equal) efficiency becomes significantly degraded. An increasing steep potential hill forms and persists near the entrance to the direct converter which effectively disperses the ion beam. This phenomena is in a sense a space charge caused dynamic instability."
"A simple three level atomic model that includes excitation, ionization, stepwise ionization, and diffusion is used to determine similarity relations for low pressure noble gas discharges. A two-temperature electron energy distribution is also included in the model. Similarity relations involving the reduced electric field, the electron main body temperature, the electron tail temperature, and the pressure-radius product are developed. It is found that the reduced electric field and the electron tail temperature depend on the discharge current as well as the pressure radius product. Good agreement as well as the pressure-radius product. Good agreement is obtained between the similarity relation predictions and experimental results in helium and neon discharges."
"An experiment is described in which an electromagnetic wave (extraordinary mode) is propagated across a magnetized plasma and second harmonic generation is detected. The generation of the plasma and the second harmonic wave is associated with resonant conditions of electron cyclotron resonance and upper hybrid resonance. By adjusting the intensity of axial magnetic field, the second harmonic generation can be made solely due to the electron cyclotron resonance, the upper hybrid resonance or both. The experiment is qualitatively in agreement with previous similar experiments and can be explained in terms of the spatial variations of the magnetic field intensity and the electron number density. A technique for diagnosing peak number density is developed from the observed second harmonic power characteristics."
"The reactions of CO/H2 mixtures in a flowing microwave (2450 MHz) reactor system have been studied experimentally. This versatile microwave plasma source catalyzes the reactions selectively to products, mainly methane and acetylene. For reaction times of 0.1 to 0.5 seconds in the pressure range of 10 to 90 torr conversions of CO to hydrocarbons ranged from 4 to 19%. Electric and magnetic field configurations in the reactor, i.e. various electromagnetic modes, appear to have only minor effects on the chemical reactions. It was observed that the conversion of CO to hydrocarbons is enhanced by high ratios of H2/CO. Based on analysis of experimental data, hydrogen radical production appears to be the controlling mechanism for producing both methane and acetylene."
"Inductive flow discharges have been generated in argon at pressures between 0.6 and 3.0 Torr in an 80-mm wide toroidal tube that was threaded by a magnetic core system of 400 cm2 cross section. The fields required to maintain the discharges were produced by exciting the core at 60 Hz. Starting was accomplished either by a capacitor discharge through auxiliary electrodes or in an electrodeless manner by exciting the core at 9600 Hz. Plasma currents at 1 Torr exceeded 100A and were slightly trailing the voltage. Mean electron densities at this condition were estimated to be 5×1013/cm3. Power dissipation in the discharge was between 0.5 and 1.9 kW at an average conversion efficiency of 60%."
"Summarizes recent experimental data related to anode phenomena in both vacuum and atmospheric pressure arcs. Currents in the range 10 A to 30 kA are discussed, and particular emphasis is placed on the effect of plasma flow from the cathode. For vacuum arcs this plasma flow is the directed motion of metal ions from the cathode spots. These ions reduce the anode voltage drop, and maintain a diffuse anode termination. At atmospheric pressure the ion flow is impeded by gas-atom collisions. However, a plasma flow towards the anode can result from magnetic pinch forces at the constricted cathode termination. In the absence of plasma flow, the anode termination constricts to a vigorously evaporating anode spot. For a typical non-refractory electrode such as copper, the spot operates at a temperature close to the boiling point irrespective of the gas pressure. The spot temperature is dictated by the balance between electrical input power and evaporative losses. These anode phenomena are discussed in relation to vacuum switchgear, arc welding and arc furnaces."
 "This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "This paper presents factual and estimated data of the representation of women and minorities in the engineering profession based on census data, membership information from technical societies, and student enrollments. The representations for women and minorities in engineering are then evaluated in relation to their position in the total U. S. population. The ethnic minorities include blacks, Spanish-surnamed, Orientals, and Native Americans."
"There are both similarities and differences in the circumstances and problems faced by women and members of ethnic minority groups when considering engineering as a career. This paper focuses on aspects of both, centering primarily on comparisons between the situations of black males and white females as a representative of the two largest minority groups in engineering today. Some references to American Indians and Spanish-speaking Americans are also included."
"There are marked differences between Chicanos, Puerto Ricans, Spanish-speaking people and other ethnic minority groups as they relate to attracting, recruiting and retaining these students in engineering curricula and in preparing them for productive and satisfying careers as engineers. For example, educational institutions must radically improve the educational delivery system for the Chicano, thus providing these students with the necessary tools and credentials essential to successfully compete in our contemporary society. Although some educators accept this responsibility, many do not know how best to accomplish the goal. This paper helps to define the needs of Spanish-speaking people generally and makes specific suggestions on how to make progress in increasing the involvement of Chicanos in the engineering profession."
"After examining the inadequately low enrollment of American Indians in studies leading to degrees in Engineering and Engineering Technology, this paper attempts to discuss the reasons for this shortage. It also suggests methods to encourage, motivate, and enable Native American youth to start meaningful studies in these fields. However, to succeed with these methods, a constructive input must come from within the Indians. The writers emphasize the necessity of an early start in motivating the students to take the needed subjects in their secondary education. Orientation lectures should inform them, for instance, what is expected from an engineering or technology student at a university and what engineering work involves. Information obtained by field trips, moving demonstration units, science clubs, etc., should supplement these lectures. It is also necessary that reservation teachers and counselors be involved in the orientation program. Training programs in nearby universities could supplement their background in the nature of engineering as well as in teaching science and mathematics with special reference to technical applications. The implementation of the whole program, including the demonstration units, teachers' programs, tutorials, etc., would require a considerable amount of funds. The establishment of a suitable position for the coordination of all the pertinent activities is definitely needed along with the support of the program by professional organizations as well as by the Indians."
"Financial support for minority engineering education must be provided if a 10-fold increase in minority engineering graduates is to be achieved. This paper analyzes the financial requirements as well as the possible sources of financial support. Sources of financial support include the family, student, educational institution, government, foundations, and employers. The author recommends that employers provide a larger proportion of the financial support for minority engineering students. Considerable quantitative data are developed and documented as a basis for that conclusion."
"This paper analyzes many of the social, economic, and educational impedances that have retarded the progress of minorities in their efforts to enter higher education generally and engineering in particular. The author argues that now is the time for the professional engineering schools, the professional societies, and industry to look beyond those social, economic, and educational impedances and, through their combined efforts, solve the problems of how potentially capable minority youth can enter the engineering field. The opportunity is available and the road is open to providing broader educational opportunities for segments of our population with great untapped potential."
"There is a national imperative to forge a productive engineering career ladder from the barrios, ghettos and reservations of this nation to the boardrooms and upper management positions of American industry. Creation of exemplary systems to provide minorities a sound engineering education, meaningful post-graduate employment, and assignments to increasingly challenging positions-all critical steps along the way-will be ineffective without encouragement to and preparation of minority youth to fill the lower rungs of education. This paper describes the philosophies and activities of the ME3Task Force, a collective attempt by several groups to bring the career ladder of engineering into clear focus of precollege minority youth and to encourage and help prepare them in their steps toward the next rung-college education."
"A greater effort must be made by both industry and the engineering schools if we are to educate more minority engineers in the next ten years. This paper approaches that challenge from the viewpoint of locating qualified minority engineering candidates for the colleges. Recruitment and admissions are recognized as related operations but they are treated independently and pragmatically in this paper."
"The paper is based on the authors' experiences since 1967 in planning and operating special programs for educationally and economically disadvantaged minority students at both the secondary school and collegiate level. They describe the special problems faced by the minority student in transition from high school graduation through the first years of an engineering curriculum with particular attention paid to providing the environment in which the minority student can make a successful transition. Some curriculum developments in freshman science and mathematics are also described."
"Three programs based on engineering-related employment as a means for enhancing traditional engineering education are described in this paper. The examples illustrate how business and education-working together-can make a significant impact on alleviating the shortage of minority representatives in the engineering profession."
"This paper outlines a co-operative engineering curriculum involving a \"pre-co-op work/experience\" immediately following graduation from high school. The University of Tennessee has found this an effective means of attracting and motivating more minority students to study engineering. The paper outlines the program including a typical work/study schedule and includes comments of participants about their experiences in the program."
"Dual degree programs or 3-2 plans as they are sometimes called have been in existence since the 1930' s. Only a few such plans, however, seemed to be productive. Since so many blacks attend the traditional Black liberal arts colleges, and since these colleges fulfill many of the needs of Black youth so effectively, it behooves the engineering educator to look to the Black liberal arts colleges as a source of well prepared prospective engineering students. In 1968 both the Atlanta University Center and Georgia Tech committed significant manpower to coordinating and improving their dual degree program. This paper describes the Georgia Tech approach to developing dual degree programs including both the progress and the promise of this approach to engineering education and particularly towards increasing the number of minority engineering graduates."
"The fact that so few minority engineers graduate each year suggests that the potential for action at the graduate level is limited at this time. Beyond the small number of baccalaureate graduates, however, there are other reasons that deter many minorities from entering graduate school including attractive starting salaries at bachelor's level; accumulative debts from financing their undergraduate education; a lack of career orientation to point out the benefits of graduate engineering education; and pursuit of post-baccalaureate study in non-engineering disciplines. The author describes these deterrents and suggests ways of handling them."
"The author shares his personal experiences at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute relating to all aspects of the campus life of black students both at the graduate and undergraduate level. There are certain clear-cut guidelines that must be developed if any program is going to work and not only increase the number of minority students entering engineering programs, but also improve the probability of their completing their programs and graduating. A basic element of the successful program is openness and frankness-\"lay out all cards on the table.\""
"To doubt whether or not predominantly black institutions have a role to play in American life is to not understand the pluralistic nature of American society. Engineering education has played an important role in the past development of these universities and will play an even larger role in the years ahead due to the capacity of engineering to penetrate so many other fields. This paper presents a brief history of the predominantly black engineering schools: North Carolina A & T State University, Prairie View University, Southern University, Tennessee State University, Howard University, and Tuskegee Institute. Particular attention is given to the evolution of their curricula and alternative and recommended future roles."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "Marking systems are frequent subjects of educational controversy because the process is difficult, because different educational philosophies call for different marking systems, and because the task is sometimes disagreeable. Claims that marks diminish the effectiveness of the educational system do not seem to be generally valid, and properly assigned marks do measure the degree of attainment of the basic objectives of education. Measurements and reports of achievement are essential in education and no better means than marks seems likely to appear. In this paper the basic purposes of marks and their effects on student attitude and motivation are discussed. Two basic systems of marking, relative and absolute, are compared, and means of improving marking through institutional standardization are discussed. Pass-fail grading and other alternatives to conventional marking systems are evaluated. Weighting of various measures of achievement in assigning marks is discussed, and detailed computational procedures for assigning marks are developed."
"The Hungarian People's Republic is an East European country whose conditions and educational systems are not well known to Western countries. This article presents an overview of Hungary's general background and her technical education system. The organization of the Budapest Technical University (\"Hungary's greatest university\") and the curricula of its Faculty of Electrical Engineering are discussed in detail. The growth and accomplishments of Electrical Engineering education, formally began only in 1949, have been impressive."
"Case studies for use in the teaching of basic field theory and electromechanics ideally illustrate the classic analytical solutions while both motivating discussions of engineering applications and dramatizing the physical phenomena. Experiments are particularly valuable for achieving this last purpose if they are visualized directly. To this end, a series of experiments are developed in the educational film, \"Electric Fields and Moving Media,\" produced for the National Committee on Electrical Engineering Films by the Educational Development Center. As background for making use of that film, analytical models and connections with engineering applications are outlined."
"This paper discusses experience in the use interactive computer graphics in a first electric and magnetic fields course, taught at the junior level in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Michigan. Interactive computer graphics in this discussion means that in the teaching-learning process, both instructor and students set up, display, and study solutions of electric and/or magnetic field problems, using graphics terminals such as the COMPUTEK 400/20 and the TEKTRONIX T4002.1.2 Interactive computer graphics can be a real asset in helping both instructor and students with the teaching-learning process. It allows the instructor to present to the class solutions for a wide range of field problems in the form of curves and drawings which are easy to understand. Most of these presentations would be too tedious to do in any other way. The student can then experiment further with these field phenomena, trying a variety of different situations as dictated by his curiosity or as directed by the instructor. Thus, interactive computer graphics allows the class to probe more deeply into a broader range of field phenomena, yet stay within the usual constraints of time and expertise available in a junior level class."
"Computer programs are described for the interactive on-line solution of problems that are usually solved with the Smith chart. The design of single and double stub matching devices is facilitated. The actions of entering the chart from attenuation/wave-length coordinates or resistance/reactance coordinates are reproduced. Constant attenuation circles can be followed and in general each pair of variables can be found from any other pair."
"A twelve-hour, four-week course in electrical engineering for freshman students is described. The goals of the course are chosen so as to best help freshman engineering students to decide whether or not they should elect to enter the electrical engineering department in their sophomore year. In view of the shortness of time available in which to get this message across, a great deal of thought was put into the design of the course including the use of a live TV system that displays experimental observations, as they happen, to a large class."
     "The Keller Plan is modified to include two or more syllabi under the rubric of a single course."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "In response to a recent editorial, the problems involved in establishing the effectiveness of new educational programs are enumerated. These include the side effects of the experimental program on the students as well as the experimenter. Possible methods of avoiding these problems are briefly described."
"The computer has come to be a vital tool in engineering analysis and design. With the introduction of moderately-priced graphics terminals it will be even more so in the future. The rapid graphic interaction between the engineer and the computer will become more and more important in computer-aided design. To provide a vehicle for introducing students to the power and utility of CAD in the automatic control area, three programs have been written incorporating the basic calculations in this area. These include time response, frequency response, and root locus, with a limited optimization facility included with the time and frequency response programs. The major considerations in the development were the graphic interactive nature of the programs and the ease of operation for the user."
"The information explosion which has resulted from recent advances in computer technology has produced an ever increasing need for the clear and concise presentation of vast quantities of data. A Three Dimensional Display System is described which satisfies this need without the requirement for expensive and highly sophisticated equipment. The display system, which employs a small general purpose digital computer, utilizes only those components normally found in Electrical Engineering laboratories and can be employed as a real time output device to improve the man-machine communication link. The system can be effectively used as a teaching tool in the classroom to display in three dimensions many of the quantities and concepts which students deal with on a daily basis. The system can also be used as an aid in research where the increased \"visibility,\" which the system can provide, yields new insight into the problem under investigation."
"The needs and objectives of a societal systems curriculum in engineering education is discussed. Basic concepts in technology assessment are explicated and the organization of an undergraduate course in technology assessment and social choice is portrayed. Desirable characteristics in the format of similar courses are described and recommendations are made for similar courses on the basis of experience accrued from teaching this course."
"Attacks by segments of society upon technology indicate that engineers have not effectively communicated their contributions to human welfare. Lowered enrollments reflect drops in recruitment, at the very time that many more engineers are needed to solve the problems being publicly discussed. Environmental engineering, systems engineering, and long-range planning bring the engineer into new communication problems in a direct working relationship with sociologists, landscape architects, and many other classes of people he seldom encountered before. At this point in time, engineering colleges have a duty to call to attention and help solve engineering problems in effective human communication. An example is given of one specific course designed with these needs in mind."
"Ideally, engineers and scientists should be taught to write and speak about their own specialties in terms that another professional will approve of and an educated layman can understand. Further, they should be taught to understand and to use argument and persuasion. Such skills cannot be effectively taught in the freshman year. Courses providing such training should be scheduled in the senior year."
"Holography, or three-dimensional photography, has been predominantly restricted to the advanced scientific laboratory. Improvements in gas lasers, photographic film, and methods of demonstration have all combined to allow the art to be practiced in graduate, undergraduate, and high schools with pleasing results. This note will present many of the practical aspects needed to ensure quality holograms and will suggest a few experiments to demonstrate the many applications of holography. With much of the equipment already on campus, it is suggested that these experiments can be included in an undergraduate course for a total investment of under $150. The demonstrations are most suitable for electrical and mechanical engineering students, but they will generate interest among all students."
"The equipment and software which permit a university group to perform computer hardware research is described. The objectives were to obtain a low-cost, minimally specialized hardware system coupled to computer-aided design techniques. Two measures demonstrated that these objectives were met: (1) students have been able to build reasonably large devices as part of their graduate research and, (2) the system has paid for itself many times over in the construction of computer devices which are not available commercially."
   "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "Technological assessment and then an educated forecast of what the future will bring have been used with various degrees of success for research planning by various agencies of the government and industry for a number of years. This paper presents the starting structure for an assessment of electrical engineering education. The structure in the form of a relevance tree is presented with major branches of programs, content, and form. Further breakdowns of the branches with a culmination in very specific elements of electrical engineering education are illustrated with figures and discussed in the text. The paper concludes with a request for assistance on detailed assessments on the very specific elements in the tree."
"The COSINE Committee was funded by the National Science Foundation to spearhead the introduction of computer engineering into the electrical engineering curriculum. This paper assesses the impact of the committee. During the early 1960's, electrical engineering departments in the United States lagged behind other engineering departments in the development of computer-oriented courses. The COSINE Committee, formed in 1965, recommended that electrical engineering departments develop computer engineering courses. Evidence from three surveys taken by COSINE shows the rapid growth of computer engineering since the formation of the COSINE Committee. Three studies made by the author and examination of texts for several EE courses also evidence COSINE impact. However, no exact implementation of COSINE recommendations is found, and no causal relationship is established."
"During the past two decades, the consistent trend in engineering education has been to cultivate an ever increasing degree of sophistication pertaining to research, mathematics, and engineering analysis at the expense of effort devoted to developing the student's skill and confidence in engineering synthesis and creative design. The time has now come to restore a more equitable balance between these two complementary poles of the educational enterprise. This paper reviews various aspects of the problem and offers some suggestions for achieving a better balance. Some of these suggestions deal with what the individual teacher can do within the existing framework of his present courses. Other broader proposals deal with needed new administrative policies relating to faculty recruitment, pay, promotion, and tenure."
"An exact asymptotic method is presented for performing gain calculations on feedback amplifiers. The method is algorithmic and utilizes only Ohm's law, voltage and current division and source conversion and does not require the breaking of the feedback loop. For impedance calculations Blackman's formula is used. A set of quick-reference tables is presented for the most common feedback amplifier configurations."
"There exists a need, in undergraduate microwave engineering courses, for a simple analysis program similar to ECAP, but which is applicable to distributed circuits. Such a program has been developed at the University of Maine, Orono to analyze a network of cascaded two-ports with the possibility of one feedback path. This configuration, while not the most general, will encompass nearly all networks encountered in an undergraduate course. It is also fast and very easy to use. Some examples of its use are given. Student response was very favorable and it is concluded that some sort of analysis program should be used in an undergraduate microwave engineering course."
"New teaching techniques are available that have been observed to increase the effectiveness of instruction; CES practitioners should examine these techniques and use them where they are applicable. There are at least three instructional strategies that impart instruction without the continuous presence of the traditional lecture-type instructor, and hence these strategies should be considered as a means of preparing CES materials to be used at remote locations. None of these strategies, incidentally, depends on hardware. Instruction systems that are dependent on hardware offer a wide variety of ways in which instructional material could be presented without a knowledgeable instructor present. Other instruction systems use hardware to extend the live classroom to remote locations by telephone line or microwave. No instructional strategy or system is a panacea; each has its own potential area of application and each must be evaluated in the context of the proposed application to determine if its use is justified."
"This paper presents a simple visual explanation of the mysterious \"t\" factor associated with a Laplace transform having repeated poles. This iconic explication provides insight into why it is practically impossible to tell from observation of the impulse-response waveform whether two poles of a system function are, in fact, exactly coincident or merely neighbors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
    "Presently discernible limitations to the extent of low-cost uranium resources provide an obvious incentive for seeking better utilization of fissile material, which may well become dominating by the end of the century. The high degree of world interest in breeder reactors, which could produce more fissile material than they consume, is thus very understandable, for the substantial conversion of fertile into fissile material thereby offered would greatly increase the effective energy yield of the mined fuel. However, the large-scale use of fast breeders which would be necessary for substantial impact on resource conservation would also require that these reactors be entirely acceptable also in other ways. Particularly they would have to compete with other routes to nuclear power in areas of capital cost, maintainability, and siting flexibility. Such considerations have stimulated the evolution of the gas-cooled fast breeder and the contemplation of combinations of fast breeders and advanced high temperature converter reactors aimed at taking best advantage of the special merits of each type. Predominant influences here are the enhanced importance of breeding ratio to the effectiveness of such a combination, the special worth of U233 as a thermal reactor fuel and the value of the high temperature capability, both directly and as a factor broadening the options available to power plant design."
 "By constructing multiwire drift chambers with a uniform electric field saturating the drift velocity, a perfectly linear response is obtained over all the chamber. The accuracy is close to σ = 100 4327442m. A similar accuracy is obtained for inclined tracks and in magnetic fields of the order of 1 tesla. By measuring the centre of gravity of avalanches a very high accuracy is obtained in the measurement of the two coordinates of avalanches in a single gap of a proportional chamber. The applications of the method to the mapping of spatial distributions of soft X-rays are discussed."
"The application of electromagnetic delay line readout methods for determining the track positions of ionizing particles in multiwire proportional chambers is described. Construction techniques for large area chambers, which allow the use of all three planes for track position measurements are given. The construction and characteristics of electromagnetic delay lines optimized for wire chamber readout are discussed."
"An analysis is presented of signal, noise and position resolution relations for some of the most interesting position-sensing methods. \"Electronic cooling\" of delay line terminations is introduced in order to reduce noise in the position-sensing with delay lines. A new method for terminating transmission lines and for \"noiseless\" damping which employs a capacitance in feedback is presented. It is shown that the position resolution for the charge division method with resistive electrodes is determined only by the electrode capacitance and not by the electrode resistance, if optimum filtering is used."
"A cluster of four narrow gap (2.5 mm) spark chambers containing 8 wires per millimeter has been built and operated at low temperatures (as low as 118°K). Results obtained from these chambers indicate that the width of the spark column is reduced at lower temperatures due to the increased gas density. Electron diffusion and deviation of the spark column from the true particle trajectory are greatly reduced at lower temperatures with narrow gap spark chambers. Space resolutions less than α = 70 microns (HWHM) has been achieved and even better resolutions are predicted from the observed temperature dependence."
"Measurements have been carried out at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Bevatron to investigate the response of multiwire proportional chambers to 2. 1 GeV/nucleon C12 and O16 nuclei. The relative gas gain as a function of high voltage was measured for three different gases: 80% Ar/20%CO2, 75% Ar/ 25%C4H10, and 81% Ar/14% Xe/5%CO2. The gas gain obtained with 5.9 KeV X-rays from Fe55 sources was also measured for comparison. Saturation characteristics of the chambers are analyzed and the implications of the results on the use of multiwire proportional chambers as spatial detectors in cosmic ray experiments are discussed. A summary of the results of delta ray calculations and their effect on spatial resolution is also presented."
"The operation of ion implanted silicon position sensitive detectors at low temperatures will be described. The improved noise performance of the detector at these temperatures in both the energy and position modes will be analyzed and its implications on low energy applications will be discussed. A large part of the investigation was devoted to the study of boron implanted resistors and their noise properties both at room temperature and cryogenic temperatures."
"We describe multivire proportional chambers (MWPC) designed for use in a positron camera for Nuclear Medicine applications. The coordinates of the two annihilation gamma rays are detected in the chamber by their interaction with thin lead converters placed on both faces of each chamber. In order to obtain reasonable efficiencies (10%) the lead converters have been made in a square honeycomb-like structure, which increases the effective surface area and also permits the application of a drift field to extract the electrons into the active area of the MWPC."
"A new type of detector, based on gaseous multiplication is presented here under. It is made of needle arrays, each needle behaving as an independent proportional counter. Thus, it has advantages of multiwire-proportional chambers and many others, mainly high-counting rate per surface unit, high mechanical reliability. All these features make this counter of large interest in a lot of fields of works."
"A measuring system has been developed for studying and optimizing the time-resolution capabilities of fast photoelectric devices, such as standard and microchannel type photomultipliers. The system incorporates a subnanosecond light-pulse generator capable of operating at repetition frequencies up to 3 MHz with output light pulses having a full width at half-maximum of less than 200 psec, and a zero-crossing discriminator which has a time walk of ±40 psec over a 170 mV to 8 V input-pulse amplitude variation. Averaging the data from several successive measurements, the measuring system time resolution is 20 psec."
"Forty-six RCA C 7151 Q photomultiplier tubes and thirty-five EMI 9711 NB photomultiplier tubes have been tested for use in the telescope of the COS-B gamma-ray experiment. The tubes were selected taking into account gain, linearity, fatigue behaviour and temperature characteristics. Besides identifying the most suitable tubes for this application, the experimentally determined values make it possible to derive \"typical\" behaviour parameters which can be used to pre-select tubes at the ordering stage. The results obtained with the EMI tubes clearly demonstrate a striking difference between \"typical\" catalogue values and \"typical\" measured values for the batch tested."
"By coupling a scintillation crystal to a photomultiplier with fiber optics, one can place the detector in areas not normally accessible to a crystal-photomultiplier combination. Although fiber optics provide a flexible optical coupling, serious light losses cause about a factor of 10 reduction in the light intensity reaching the photomultiplier. Most of the light loss is due to the small acceptance angle of the fiber optics with transmission losses and crystal aperture losses playing secondary roles. Attention to the design and to the selection of the crystals and fiber optics help to optimize the light collection efficiency. The light losses lower the scintillation intensity from low-energy (10 to 40 keV) radiation into the region where photomultiplier noise becomes important (3.5 - 18 photoelectron equivalents). This noise consists of Cerenkov events, faceplate scintillations, electroluminescence, afterpulses and thermionic emissions. For effective low background counting this noise must be reduced. A combination of pulse-shape discrimination, magnetically limiting the photocathode area and shielding were effective in reducing the background rate from 513±3 counts/minute to 10.0±0.5 counts/minute in the energy range from 6.5 to 40 keV. By coincidence counting, in the same energy region, a background rate of 1.60±0.28 counts/minute was obtained."
"New studies of gas-proportional scintillation counters have been performed using a large alpha source, reasonable spectral resolution (< 25-k), and including the strong near-infrared transitions in noble gases excluded in all previous studies. The results indicate that several new gas mixtures show promise for detectors to measure the neutron fluxes in a reactor over a wide range of values and in many nuclear physics applications where fast response and good energy resolution are desired. When used with an isotopic source the device can be used as a portable, variable-intensity light source or to detect trace amounts of atmospheric contaminants such as CO, NO, and Hg. The work also has provided useful data for laser systems pumped by ionizing radiation as well as for the operation of plasma display panels."
"Gain shifts in photomultipliers from count-rate changes can be minimized by using only five active stages, making up the gain with a low-noise preamplifier. Further reductions sometimes result from a dim light shining on the dynode structure. Reductions to less than 1 part in 600 were seen."
"Avalanche diodes, up to 20 mm2 in area, have been made with sensitivities up to 6 × 106 counts/ Roentgen. Operating at 200 volts, typical gains of 20 are achieved. This permits the detection of 6 keV X-rays and dosimetry of gamma rays down to 30 keV with background counting rates of about 0.1 c/s."
"Gamma radiation from terrestrial and extraterrestrial sources has been investigated for the first time with a high-resolution lithium-drifted germanium spectrometer-cryogen system flown on board a low-altitude, spin-stabilized, polar-orbiting satellite (1972-076B) launched on October 2, 1972. Gamma-ray pulses corresponding to energies between 40 keV and ~ 2.8 MeV are analyzed by a 4096-channel pulse-height analyzer with an overall system resolution of 3.5 - 4.0 keV FWHM (1.33 MeV Co60). A description of the instrument, its performance in earth orbit and preliminary results of the gamma-ray backgrounds are presented."
"The first high-resolution gamma-ray spectrometer system employing Ge(Li) detectors has been designed and successfully flown on an earth-orbiting satellite. The complete scientific payload consists of two large-volume Ge(Li) spectrometers for the measurements of photons in the 40 keV - 2.8 MeV energy range with 4096-channel energy resolution and six auxiliary sensors for measuring the location, intensity and energy spectra of charged-particle backgrounds in earth orbit. To achieve and maintain an overall systems resolution of 3.5-4 keV in photon energy, a low-noise bias power supply and charge sensitive preamplifier-amplifier combination were designed for the germanium detectors. Amplified signals are analyzed in a 4096-channel analyzer of the linear-ramp type, with an integral and differential linearity of ± 0.2 percent and ± 1.0 percent, respectively. Individual pulse-height addresses are sampled at a rate of 1625 addresses/sec and time tagged together with absolute count-rate data by the experiment digital-data-handling system and then stored on magnetic tape recorders. A detailed description of the gamma-ray spectrometer electronic system including the method of collecting and analysis of flight data is given."
"A space-borne instrument to measure the spectral and temporal characteristics of astronomical γ-rays in the .05 to 10 Mev energy range is described. The spectrometer consists of four 60 cc Ge(Li) detectors with an energy resolution of 2.5 Kev (FWHM) at 1.33 Mev. The Ge(Li) detectors are actively shielded with CsI(Na) for angular collimation and background reduction. Cooling of the Ge(Li) detectors to 88°K for orbital lifetimes of up to two years is provided by a two-stage solid subliming refrigerator."
"The 25 cm × 25 cm chamber described images thermal and epicadmium neutron beams using two boron-coated conversion screens, and fast neutrons using a single polyethylene converter. Sample images and quantitative attenuation and resolution data are presented. Measurements of neutron attenuation in lucite patterns give good agreement with expected values for thermal, epicadmium, and fast (Pu-Be) beams. The measured mean free paths were 0.30, 0.81, and 5.8 cm, respectively. Thermal neutron resolution (0.2 cm) depends upon α-particle range, but resolution for fast neutrons (0.4 cm) appears to be limited by chamber thickness (to approximately one-half of the chamber thickness). Measurements involving digital image storage and manipulation are also described and illustrated."
"A novel 50 cm long position sensing proportional chamber has been constructed for use in transverse section reconstruction measurements. Characteristics of this detector are: position resolution 1 mm, energy resolution 20%, efficiency at 60 keV 31%, and deadtime 2 μsec. Fan beam x-ray transmission measurements at many angles are stored in a PDP 11/45 minicomputer which performs and displays the density reconstruction in a 64 × 64 array encompassing the cross sectional contour of the scanned object."
"A new design of a flow cell type of scintillation detector system suitable for continuous monitoring of tritium in the ambient air has been developed. The detector records 2500 counts per second with a single photomultiplier tvhbe type EMI 9514S for 1 MPC level of tritium activity release at 50 coutnts per second background and 2.5% coutnting efficiency. Possibility of designing detectors with an efficiency, comparable to that of liquid scintillators, has been discussed. The cell, filled with plastic scintillator powder, does not show any background build up over long periods of operation and has a low gamma response. The performance of the detector has been studied in detail and a complete tritiutm monitoring set up has been described."
"Located in the Science Instrument Module of Apollo 15 and 16, the X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometer measured the X-ray fluorescence induced in the lunar surface by the incident solar flux. The fluorescing radiation energy spectra is characteristic of the elemental composition of the lunar surface allowing qualitative and quantitative assessments of the lunar surface. This paper provides a description of the detectors, circuit functions, on-board data processing techniques, in-flight calibration, hardware and flight results of the spectrometer."
"Electronics developed for a whole body counting system analyze the pulse heights of signals from both the sodium iodide (NaI(Tl)) and cesium iodide (CsI(Na)) crystals of a phoswich scintillation detector. Pulse shape discrimination is used to determine the origin of the scintillation, NaI or CsI, while rejecting coincident Compton-scattered events and photomultiplier tube noise. Both energy spectra are accumulated simultaneously in separate memory quadrants of a multichannel analyzer. The system allows for low-energy (5 keV - 125 keV) x-ray analysis from the NaI(Tl) crystal and high-energy (100 keV - 2.5 MeV) x-ray or γ-ray analysis from the CsI(Na) crystal. The discrimination system is better than 95% efficient over both energy ranges, with a low-energy (12-24keV) shielded background count of less than 2 cpm for a single 5-in.-diam phoswich detector. This system thus extends the detector's normal energy range by more than an order of magnitude."
"An experiment to measure the charge composition and energy spectra of ultra low energy charged particles in interplanetary space has been developed and launched on the IMP 8 (Explorer 50) satellite on 26 October 1973. The instrument consists of two separate sensors sharing common electronics. One of these sensors, developed by Max Planck Institut, uses a thin window gas proportional counter to measure the rate of energy loss and a totally depleted silicon surface barrier detector to measure total energy of incoming particles. The energy range for two dimensional analysis extends from 300 KeV to 2.5 MeV for protons and 60 KeV/nucleon to % 25 MeV/nucleon for iron with excellent resolution of individual chemical elements. The other sensor, developed at the University of Maryland, cobines electrostatic deflection with total energy measurements in silicon surface barrier detectors to give the ionic charge and kinetic energy of the particle. The overall energy range of the electrostatic analyzer is from ~125 KeV to ~1.25 MeV for singly charged ions and from 37 KeV/charge to 1.25 MeV/charge for particles with charge ≥4."
"This paper is addressed to the problem associated with transmission tomography and its implications in solving large numbers of simultaneous equations and associated parameters, such as multimillion weighting factors. Mathematical approaches to this problem in several directions are briefly reviewed and a technique (linear superposition technique with compensation) developed for this purpose, along with results obtained with this method is presented. Another important aspect of the multiple scanning tomography is counting statistics which requires the count rate be in the order of 5 MHz or more for the pulse counting to have statistical accuracy of 0.5% or better. Several alternative detectors besides conventional Sodium Iodine (NaI(Tl)) detector, namely, plastic scintillator (with enhanced photoelectric absorbtion by, for instance, tin loading) and various semiconductor detectors, such as CdTe and possible HgI2 are under investigation. Plastic scintillators will naturally be a suitable candidate owing to their fast light decay characteristics. A tin loaded plastic scintillator (HE 140 type) is under investigation and some of the preliminary results are reported. With the semiconductor detectors, the preliminary charge collection time observations and calculations indicate that these new exotic detectors (CdTe and HgI2) can be applicable to the high rate operations primarily by virtue of their short charge collection times and moderately good energy resolutions."
"Several algorithms have been proposed for reconstructing the variable attenuation coefficients of tissues inside the skull from x-ray transmission measurements. We show that a simulated head section is accurately reconstructed by a modification, which is both fast and simple, of a previously studied algorithm. The possibility of using the algorithm to perform absolute measurements of the attenuation coefficient at points interior to the skull is high."
"On May 14, 1973, Skylab was placed in earth orbit by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The major scientific payload of this experimental space station is the Apollo Telescope Mount (ATM) which houses six major telescope instruments. As a group, these instruments are capable of observing the sun's radiation from X-rays to visible light. The Skylab program consists of three manned observing periods; the first period having a twenty-eight day duration, the second and third each having fifty-six days duration. These three observing periods are separated by unmanned periods of approximately forty days duration. From the data collected in these three observing periods, solar physicists will try to answer some of the basic questions concerning solar flares, solar activity, the heating of the solar corona and the solar cycle. The purpose of this paper is to give a brief description of the hardware and performance of one of these instruments, the X-ray spectroheliograph. The conceptual design of this instrument and scientific details of the subsystems have been discussed in Reference 2 as part of a general discussion on \"Imaging in X-Ray Astronomy\". A more extensive presentation of the instrument as a whole in the context of the goals in the solar physics area is in preparation (Reference 3)."
"A different type multichannel analyzer has been designed, built, and tested for the High Spectral Resolution Gamma Ray Spectrometer to be flown on the HEAO spacecraft. This system offers superior dynamic range, energy conversion, and stability for large Ge(Li) detectors. Theoretical and measured results from an 8192 channel analyzer are presented."
"The present state of our knowledge of the properties of high purity germanium is reviewed. The role of excess vacancies, oxygen and high dislocation density in producing trapping in detectors is discussed. By the application of Fourier Transform Spectroscopy, the major impurities have been identified and aluminum has been found to be the dominant one in most crystals. Analysis has shown that the principal source of aluminum is the polycrystalline starting material. The material problems related to detector fabrication are surveyed and a spectrum taken with a 43 cm3 coaxial detector is presented. It is concluded that the important problems of material development are well delineated but that their solutions will require intensified effort."
"The electrically active impurities remaining in high-purity germanium have been identified by means of far infrared photo-conductivity measurements. The principal donor is phosphorus, often accompanied by lithium and another donor which is believed to be the LiO+ complex. The acceptors present in undoped crystals are boron and aluminum. The tip ends of germanium crystals were examined by mass spectrograph, electron microprobe, and emission spectrograph analyses in a search for the possible presence of unsuspected impurities. The principal elements found were Ag in a first generation crystal and In when traces of this element had been intentionally added. Lattice defects have been studied by means of low temperature annealing and quenching experiments. Acceptor defects found in as-grown crystals can be eliminated by annealing. Two other defects which anneal in the 20-160°C range are found in quenched samples."
"We present below a synopsis of results of low temperature (to ~7° K) Hall measurements on 58 samples of high purity germanium obtained from six laboratories in the U.S., Canada, and Europe. The measurements show the presence of deep (Cu) and shallow level (Group III and V) chemical impurities as well as deep energy levels associated with complex vacancy and/or oxide defects. In general, we have found that high purity germanium tends to be rather well compensated, i.e., the individua acceptor or donor concentrations are typically 3 to 10 times that of the net carrier concentration at 77° K. The results show that as far as chemical impurities are concerned, Cu contamination is generally a problem at those laboratories using resistance-heated pullers. Shallow level impurity problems seem to be associated with Al most frequently, with some boron contamination observed. The presence of defect-related deep levels has also been observed."
"Fourier Transform Spectroscopy in the wave number range between 0 and 125/cm1 (0 to 15 meV) was used to determine the impurities producing shallow energy levels in high-purity germanium. The sensitivity of the method is sufficient to detect impurities at a concentration of 109/cm3 with excellent signal to noise ratio and the selectivity (energy resolution) allows a clean separation of all shallow levels. So far only net-concentrations can be observed so that it was necessary to measure n- and p-type material separately. The elements boron, gallium and indium appear to follow the expected segregation laws, while aluminum seems to be homogeneously distributed in the whole crystal. It has proven difficult to investigate n-type material due to the inability to produce low-noise electron-injecting contacts at the measuring temperatures (6 to 11°K)."
"The fabrication and performance of coaxial gamma radiation detectors from high purity germanium are discussed, and equations are presented which characterize a coaxial detector as a function of size, bias voltage, and impurity concentration. The coaxial detectors discussed have fully depleted volumes from 7 cm3 to 76 cm3."
"A propeller-shaped region of reduced full-energy-peak efficiency was observed on the face of a true coaxial Ge(Li) detector. A similar pattern on the etch-pit photograph suggests that the propeller blades correspond to the 1 1 1 symmetry axes of the crystal. Spectra obtained when a 122 keV γ-ray beam was directed at this degraded region, show a low energy tail which is not present when the beam is directed at normal regions. Current pulses corresponding to γ-rays that interact in the propeller region have shapes that show deficiencies in the electron component. Thus, degraded crystal regions that are revealed by etch-pit distributions can be correlated to local detector performance by direct observation of trapping rather than only by inference from the presence of tails in the energy spectra."
"HgI2 x-ray detectors up to 16 mm3 have been made from single crystals grown from the vapor phase. Crystal growth, detector fabrication, and transport properties are described. Resolutions of 850 eV FWHM at 5.9 keV and 4.3 keV FWHM at 122 keV have been measured at 25° C in air."
"Mercuric iodide single crystals have been grown by static and dynamic sublimation methods. Characteristics of contacts and detector capacitance have been studied by photon excitation methods. Gamma and X-ray spectrometry has been carried out with completed detectors showing resolutions comparable to the best results published to date. A measurement of hole trapping length has been made from the spectral shapes observed and has been found to be approximately 0.3 mm. Transient waveform analysis with alpha-particle excitation shows hole mobilities of approximately 3 cm2/V-sec for a highly purified crystal and 0.05 for an expected less pure crystal. Electron mobilities of 120 cm2/V-sec are observed. An attempt is made to explain the observed transient waveforms in terms of a single dominant trap model, with only partial success. Due to the strongly excitonic character of the material, it is proposed that the unfamiliar observations made regarding transport properties with the HgI2 detectors studied may be due to exciton dissociation under high electric fields, to long exciton lifetimes and to interactions between excitons and trapping centers in the material."
"Semi-insulating CdTe was grown from indium-doped tellurium-rich solutions. Ten 1/2-cm3 devices were fabricated with resolutions as low as 6% (FWHM) for 137Cs. Polarization phenomena were not observed for tests performed from -36 to 65°C. Full energy peak counting efficiencies were less than theoretically predicted because of trapping. In addition, resolutions as low as 3 keV for 241Am were obtained with smaller (432747715 mm3) devices."
"Nuclear radiation detectors made from high resistivity chlorine doped cadmium telluride grown by the travelling heater method were evaluated. Short term performance for α, ß, and γ radiations was good but the long term performance (>1 min) was degraded by a decrease in the full energy pulse height and γ-ray efficiency with time after the bias voltage was applied. A model which considers the effects of deep acceptors which slowly ionize (~103 s) to an equilibrium concentration ~5 × 1011/cm3 can explain the experimental findings on the changes of pulse shape, pulse amplitude, capacitance, energy resolution, and γ-ray efficiency with time. The operating conditions required for satisfactory stability in these detectors may be inconvenient to the user."
"The mobilities, trapping times, activation energies, and trap concentration have been measured for both holes and electrons in Br and Cl-doped CdTe using the time-of-flight technique. Two electron traps 25 and 50 meV below the conduction band and two hole traps 140 and 350 meV above the valence band have been found. The 10 times larger concentration of levels found in the Br-doped CdTe can be explained using a model that describes the association of cadmium vacancies and substitutional halogens. The physical interpretation of the μι+ product when two levels are present is discussed for this case where the mobility is reduced and the lifetime is increased by trapping-detrapping phenomena. The measurements demonstrate that the material has excellent potential for γ-ray detectors that do not polarize with the proper surface preparation and make good detectors (6 keV FWHM for 122 keV γ-ray)."
"It has been demonstrated that by utilizing a new method of multiple pulling, it is possible to consistently produce 3 inch diameter germanium crystals with net carrier concentrations in the low 1010/cc range. This method involves two factors which are used to full advantage: 1) the germanium is purified as a result of the normal segregation of impurities, and 2) the usual handling and etching of furnace parts and germanium between successive pulls, as in multiple generation growth, is eliminated. By means of low temperature Hall and axial resistivity profile measurements, we have followed the segregation of both donors and acceptors in various stages of growth. We have observed the normal segregation of impurities and the presence of a continuous impurity background source within the system."
"The encapsulation of high purity germanium detectors is very desirable in order to increase their versatility and reliability. However, rapid and extensive degradation is seen for all detectors made from detector grade crystals which are encapsulated in a simple vacuum. Extensive studies have shown that the cause of this degradation is hydrogen adsorption on the detector surface. There it causes the formation of a strong p+ inversion layer which in turn shunts the detector junction. Reliable encapsulation is shown to be achievable by the use of hydrogen-free germanium crystals."
"Ellipsometry has been used to measure the thickness of the residual film on the germanium surface after etching. Residual film thicknesses of 4 Å, 20 Å and 500 Å are obtained for the 10:1, 3:1 and 1:10 etches, respectively. A single detector was processed a total of 63 times using a variety of surface treatments. This study showed high breakdown voltage could be obtained with a variety of etches, but that the time the detector remains in the quenching solution should be minimized. The edge of the depletion region was scanned with a collimated 60 kV γ source after each surface treatment. The two scan results that could reprevroducibly be obtained were the type C, obtained with a 3:1 or 10:1 etch, a water quench, a brief evacuation and a rapid cool down, and the type B obtained using the same procedure with a 1:10 etch. The type C scan can be eliminated by heating in vacuum and restored by exposure to room air suggesting that it is caused by water vapor adsorbed on the surface. The type C scan is believed to result from hole trapping at the surface of the depletion region. An external electric field has been used to increase the breakdown voltage of the detector."
"Prior exposure to certain gases appears to largely determine the subsequent performance at LN2 temperatures of high purity germanium detectors with exposure temperature being a critical factor. These gases are hydrogen, water vapor and possibly oxygen. An optimum concentration of water vapor in the environment to which the detectors are exposed prior to cool down appears to be essential to achieving good performance and stable operating characteristics."
"A technique has been developed in the fabrication of high purity germanium gamma radiation detectors which consistently allows the application of large amounts of overvoltage. A chemically grown oxide layer to which Pd metallization adheres strongly forms a rugged surface barrier. Cycling temerature and between dry nitrogen and ambient air, changing contact fixtures, storage and transferring to different cryostats result in no significant changes in the initially good I-V and noise characteristics."
"One dimensional monolithic arrays and position sensitive detectors have been fabricated in p-type high purity germanium. The results of collimated beam scanning measurements of array response and of energy and spatial resolution measurements in the position sensitive detectors are reported. Position sensitive detectors exhibiting 4.0 mm spatial resolution for 122 keV excitation have been fabricated and it is shown that position resolution improves with increased gamma ray energy."
"This paper describes the results of studies intended to provide a detailed understanding of the physical phenomena associated with dead layers sufficient to permit the production of rugged, reliable, ultrathin window detectors suitable for use in experiments which require the detection of very low energy radiation and also for the detection of heavily ionizing radiation, such as fission fragments. The properties of contacts formed by several different metals have been investigated. Interesting phenomena were observed when using nickel and chromium as the rectifying contact. The thinnest dead layers obtained so far are 270 Å for gold, 280 Å for aluminum, and 190 Å for palladium, in terms of silicon-equivalence."
"Silicon two dimensional position sensitive detectors were fabricated by ion implantation and their response to pulsed electron beam and optical excitation was determined. The results of measurements of rise time, position resolution, linearity and current gain as a function of electron accelerating voltage are presented. It is shown that the gain-voltage curves are consistent with a model incorporating a thin (μ0.5 μm) dead layer at the surface of the detector."
"Metal-oxide-semiconductor devices have been evaluated as low-energy (250 eV to 50 keV) x-ray dosimeters. They can be used to measure dosages as low as 1 rad (SiO2) to as high as 105 rad (SiO2). Their small size and basic simplicity make it possible to form arrays of dosimeters for x-ray imaging. When compared to thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLD's), photographic film, and thermopiles, MOSFET dosimeters offer distinct advantages in terms of their small size, their sensitivity to photon energies below 10 keV, and their adaptability to an electrical readout system."
"Rectangular, 100μ thick surface barrier, and 1 mm thick lithium-drifted-silicon surface barrier detectors have been developed for the University of Maryland Electrostatic Energy-Charge Analyzer on the IMP H and J satellites. Fabrication techniques are discussed which influence detector properties such as injecting contacts, windows, trapping, and n- and p-type surfaces. Aspects of detector reliability, the selection of flight detectors, and some causes of detector failure are considered."
"Performance of halogen-doped CdTe gamma - ray detectors has been improved significantly by the development of new device fabrication methods. In particular, these detectors do not exhibit any of the previously observed polarization effects. Room temperature resolution of 7% at 122 keV has been achieved using applied fields of less than 50 V/mm for detectors up to 100 mm3 in volume."
"True image-forming telescopes for use in X-ray astronomy are available now with arc-second resolution for A ≥3A. Such telescopes have been very successfully applied on rockets and on the recent Skylab mission for solar observations. However, their application to observations of extra-solar X-ray sources has been severely limited due to a lack of sensitive X-ray imaging detectors. We describe here a new type of detector using a GaAs photocathode with quantum efficiency approaching 100%. This detector allows us to detect sources 10 to 20 times fainter than previously possible, while preserving spatial resolution on the several micron scale. We present data on the X-ray photoelectron yield for GaAs (Cs-O2) negative affinity cathodes both in reflection mode using a thick cathode and in the transmission mode using a 3.7 micron wafer. A theoretical model is developed and compared with the data to determine the electron diffusion length, the front surface electron reflection coefficient and the back surface electron escape probability for the transmission cathode. There is good agreement between the crystal parameters obtained from X-ray data and from optical data. Application to X-ray telescope imaging in a practical device is discussed."
"Environmental monitoring is a necessity in this Nuclear Age. Monitoring programs, however, must be designed so that needed information is obtained in a cost-effective manner without redundancy among Federal, State, and local agency programs. The approach of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to monitoring is discussed, with emphasis on dose computation utilizing source data, environmental models, and minimal monitoring for validation. The compatible role of State and local agency monitoring programs is also presented."
"The stringent limits proposed for off-site population exposure to radiation of facilities origin allow little conservatism in the methodology of dose assessment. Experiments in the environs of a large boiling water reactor (BWR) are being made to determine ion chamber and TLD techniques for measuring annual gamma radiation exposures of 0.1 to 10 mR from the gaseous effluent and to evaluate the accuracy of the dose predictions of several analytical models of radionuclide and photon transport. The development of accurate experimental techniques for low-level dose assessment should also be important for facilities where airborne releases occur intermittently (\"puffs\") or where the source is poorly defined (\"seepage\")."
"An overview is provided of the techniques for measuring plutonium in various media. The emphasis is on measurements for surveillance and protection in environmental and occupational situations. Overviews are first provided for the characteristics of, sources of, and typical levels of plutonium concentrations. The various measurement techniques are then discussed."
"The evaluation of the sensitivity of a Ge(Li) coaxial detector in comparison with a thin NaI(Tl) detector in in situ terrestrial 241Am is described. The experiment was performed in areas of natural background and fallout products. Of primary concern is the detection of 241Am 60 keV gamma ray. Calculated from these data are the corresponding quantitations of 239,240Pu."
"Guidance to the selection, laboratory evaluation, and application of TLD systems for routine environmental radiation monitoring is presented. Methods are discussed for performing initial and routine evaluations to assure that required accuracy and reliability is achieved and maintained. A typical environmental measurement made with a commercial system is examined to illustrate the effects of the various parameters and techniques considered. Methods for separating total radiation exposure measurements to isolate its components, notably that attributable to the gaseous effluent from a nuclear facility, are discussed."
 "Environmental monitoring using a complementary system of TLDs and Geiger counters is described. The inexpensive TLDs give integral dose data at many points in the surveillance area, while the Geiger counter instruments, though more expensive, allow measurement of smaller doses and show changes of dose rate with time at points of particular interest in the vicinity of nuclear facilities."
"The Field Monitoring System described here is being used for long-term measurements of radiation dose rate in the vicinity of nuclear reactors. The output of a high pressure ionization chamber is converted to a binary number, which is written on a magnetic tape cassette every ten seconds. The digital recording permits direct entry of the data into a computer for analysis. The instrument is powered by a rechargeable plug-in battery pack. This permits complete flexibility in choice of monitoring sites. Through the extensive use of COSMOS integrated circuits, a modest sized battery pack yields 18 days operation."
"A computer-controlled air sampling system has been designed and is presently being constructed. The self-contained, mobile system will collect and record data from eight meteorological sensors. This information will be used in the study of resuspended airborne activity. Air sampler operation will be based on comparisons between the meteorological data and the sampling criteria selected by the operator at the beginning of the run. Correlations between meteorological parameters and resuspension will be used to develop a predictive model. The paper includes a description of system hardware and discussion of the software concept."
"Information derived from environmental radiation monitoring is required to assess the compliance status, guide the development, and measure the progress of programs addressed to the overall problem of radiation protection. Monitoring techniques and requirements of instrumentation needed to cost-effectively implement environmental radiation monitoring systems are discussed."
"Measurements of iodine-131 at operating BWR's recently reported by the AEC are evaluated in terms of proposed \"as-low-as-practicable\" regulations. Comparisons are made between measured releases and those calculated using a mathematical model developed by ORNL and used by the AEC in licensing nuclear power plants. It is concluded that iodine-131 releases in ventilation exhaust air are significant with respect to proposed regulations. Using methods given in Regulatory Guide 1.42, it is shown that releases may be 10 times higher than those which would give a potential dose of 15 mRem/year at the site boundary. It is shown that about one-half of the iodine-131 in ventilation air was elemental during power operation. During a refueling shutdown at one plant the average release rate of iodine-131 was 3 times that during power operation, but only a small fraction was elemental. It is concluded that the ORNL model did not represent the processes leading to the appearance of iodine-131 in ventilation exhaust air, although in the aggregate the agreement between calculated and measured releases was very good."
"A feasibility study of automatic online monitoring of specific radionuclides in nuclear plant gaseous effluents is being conducted at the Georgia Tech Research Reactor (GTRR). An inpile loop experiment has been designed, built, and operated in the GTRR to simulate gaseous effluent mixtures anticipated for a variety of reactor situations. The gaseous fission product mixture may be altered by varying the flow rate of the helium sweep gas over the uranium-235 loaded microporous target, the neutron flux and temperature at the target, and the configuration of the cryogenic trapping system external to the reactor. The loop is used for experiments in remote monitoring of specific radionuclides to be experienced for normal, minor malfunction, and accident conditions at a nuclear plant. As a means of evaluating the practical aspects of automatic online monitoring, a remote monitoring system has been designed and built to measure nuclear and meteorological data at the GTRR, and to transmit the data to a central computer on either a routine \"record keeping\" or on an emergency-interrupt basis. The measurement system can be adjusted from the remote location to allow live time probing of conditions at the monitored location."
"The controversy in recent years over the extent of the risk to the public from environmental radioactivity attributable to nuclear facilities (in particular nuclear power plants and fuel reprocessing facilities) has resulted in a lowering of previously \"acceptable\" environmental radiation levels. The proposal by the AEC to limit effluents from light-water-cooled nuclear reactors so that the exposure of any individual in the public would not exceed 5 mR/yr, and the pronouncement by the BEIR Committee that the current environmental radiation protection guides are unnecessarily high, are illustrative. In turn the AEC has issued a Safety Guide calling for considerable refinement in the measuring and reporting of effluents from nuclear power plants, and has only recently issued a counterpart dealing with the measuring and reporting of radioactivity in the environs of nuclear power plants. The EPA has also recently issued a guide for the surveillance of environmental radioactivity. Currently, power reactor operators are being required by the AEC Regulatory Staff to conduct detailed, sensitive environmental surveillance, at levels consistent with the proposed concentration limits of Appendix I. Much of this appears to be based on extremely conservative assumptions throughout, including dose-effect relationships, exposure situations, pathway models, reconcentration factors and intakes, which cannot be substantiated when examined in the light of current experience in the vicinity of existing power reactors. The expenditures occasioned by the required additional in-plant features necessary to meet the currently proposed effluent release criteria appear difficult to justify on a reasonable basis."
"A procedure based on chemical separation techniques and activation analysis has been developed for the sequential analysis of low levels of 131I, 129I and natural iodine in environmental samples. The iodine is first separated from the samples by oxidation. The separated iodine is then counted by low level, beta-gated gamm-jay spectrometry for the measurement of 131I. The chemical yield for the separation is measured by means of 125I tracer. Activation analysis is used for measurement of the separated natural iodine (127I) and 129I. The natural iodine is estimated from either the 126I or 128I activity produced in the sample. the induced 130I is used to estimate the 129I concentration. The measurement of 130I at low levels requires specialized counting methods. Interfering activities which may be present in the irradiated sample include 125I, 126I, shortlived fission-product iodine activities produced by activation of uranium impurities, and 82Br from bromine impurities. Since 130I decays with several coincident gamma-rays, multiple gamma-ray coincidence counting techniques can be used to reduce background and discriminate against interfering activities. Sevoral three-and four-segmented NaI(Tl) detectors have been used for these measurements and compared with other detector systems. The sensitivities for different coincidence counting modes were compared for several of the detector systems. Detection sensitivities-achieved for 131I and 129I are 0.02 dpm and 10-6 dpm, respectively. Measurements have been made of iodine radioactivity in the environment at concentrations below the limits established for radiation protection purposes."
"The importance of specific activity methods in the evaluation of radiological hazards due to the atmospheric release of 129I and 131I has prompted the development of analytical methods for determining atmospheric stable iodine concentrations. An analytical procedure based on neutron activation analysis for iodine trapped on filter paper and activated charcoal was developed. This procedure was used to measure the airborne stable iodine concentrations in several areas around Atlanta, Georgia and Barnwell, South Carolina. Airborne stable iodine concentrations determined in this study are in the range 10-9 - 10-8grams/m3. These concentrations are consistent with others reported in the United States but fall below those reported in the United Kingdom by a factor of 100. The collection and retention of iodine on charcoal appears to depend on the following factors: air flow rate, chemical form, presence of oxides of nitrogen, and relative humidity. The influence of these factors on iodine collection and retention on charcoal are in need of further study as related to airborne iodine measurements."
"A system is briefly described, which is designed for the sampling of tritium gas (HT and T2) and tritiated water vapor in the air at levels far below MPC and down to present-day atmospheric background levels. The tritium gas is extracted from the air by catalytic combustion on Pd at ambient temperature. The resultant water is absorbed on molecular sieve carrying the Pd. The system is well suited for field work. Present-day world-wide HT levels are about 2.3 pCi/kg air, and the HTO levels about the same in the troposphere."
"The U. S. Forest Service conducts yearly white-tailed deer hunts on the Savannah River Plant to help control the indigenous deer population. Successful hunters are permitted to retain their guarry after clearance by Forest Service personnel. To be sure that carcass radioactivity is similar to that found throughout the southeastern coastal region, each carcass is radioassayed on the spot with a single channel analyzer set to measure the cesium-137 photopeak (Figure 1). This paper describes the circuitry and performance of the instrument used for the field analyses. A sodium iodide crystal with photomultiplier tube provides electrical pulses proportional to the incident gamma radiation. An amplifier is tailored to compensate the temperature-induced gain changes of the detector system, and micropower digital logic is used to form control, pulse shaping, and scaling functions. The components are interconnected with wire-wrap techniques. The resulting instrument is compact and simple to operate, and its analyses are comparable in accuracy to laboratory analyses."
"Marine organisms have been shown to have up to 1000-fold higher specific activities of iron-55 than that in seawater. It was also shown that iron-55 specific activities increase 10 to 30-fold in salmon between mid and northern latitudes. These observations are currently explained on the basis of a different chemical form for iron-55 in seawater and greater dilution of the iron-55 by stable iron at mid-latitudes than at the northern latitudes. The half-time for iron-55 concentrations in mature harvested salmon at all latitudes is approximately 10 months, which is comparable to the half-time for movement of stratospheric debris to the earth's surface. This observation precluded the possibility that early tropospheric deposition of iron-55 from the 1961-62 Russian nuclear tests contributed significantly to the long-term concentrations of iron-55 in marine biota."
"A method for determining leak rates (on the order of 1 × 10-17 cm3/sec and higher) from containers of tritium waste is described. Each container is sealed in a disposable can. After several days, the accumulated tritium is flushed from the can with compressed air through an ethylene-glycol bubbler where the HTO, but not the HT, is trapped. The output of the bubbler is channeled through a heated palladium catalyst where the HT is oxidized. The oxidized HT is collected in a second ethylene-glycol bubbler. The tritium collected in both bubblers is measured by liquid scintillation counting."
"There are numerous reasons for performing environmental measurements for routine health or safety monitoring and to determine the movement of trace elements or radionuclides through our environment to man. This is often a requirement for the licensing of nuclear power reactors, as well as many other meteorological or environmental research experiments. In this paper a variety of sensitive low-level counting systems have been discussed from an analyst's viewpoint, centering on a variety of NaI(Tl) and Ge(Li) gamma ray spectrometers. The coincident gamma-ray emitters are most sensitively detected through NaI(Tl) multidimensional gamma ray spectrometry, while single gamma ray emitters are very sensitively detected with Ge(Li) detector systems. NaI(Tl) detector systems are superior in general for environmental measurements."
"The requirements for gamma-ray spectra analysis for low-level environmental radionuclides are reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on the routine and rapid analysis of large numbers of samples. Pertinent requirements for analysis include the system energy and efficiency calibration, the library of gamma rays of concern, criteria of establishing the limits of sensitivity and techniques used for gamma-ray intensity and background determinations. An analysis code (CETUS) used with a Ge(Li) detector and multichannel analyzer interfaced to a programmable desk-top calculator is described."
"Currently we are employing a Ge(Li) spectrometer for in-situ measurements of radionuclides contained in soil. This is being done at nuclear reactor sites and in complex radionuclide fields at the Nevada Test Site. The methodology and precision of the in-situ spectrometric technique has previously been established for analysis of radionuclides in soil. Application of the technique to gaseous and liquid effluents containing radionuclides has shown a great deal of promise."
"The performance characteristics of a high efficiency, high resolution (20%-1.85 KeV) Ge(Li) gamma-ray detector have been evaluated and are compared with a lower efficiency (13%) Ge(Li) system having NaI Compton suppression. This comparative evaluation, based on the analysis of low level environmental samples, indicates that the high performance detector generally provides better sensitivity than a comparably-priced Compton suppression unit."
"Aerial surveys of terrestrial gamma radiation have many applications. These include (1) mineral exploration, (2) nuclear facilities environmental monitoring, (3) water equivalent of snow cover determinations, and (4) soil moisture estimates. The latter two applications are not yet operational in the United States, although snow surveys have been conducted in the USSR for many years. The primary detectors for all applications is the NaI(Tl) crystal. Single and multiple arrays are flown in a variety of aircraft (including helicopters) at altitudes varying from 25 to 150 m. Accuracy of results appear adequate for most applications. Accuracies can be improved by better accounting for the background components, particularly airborne radioactivity."
"Airborne radiometric surveys from low flying helicopters have been completed for three nuclear power plant sites in Texas. The gamma ray counting data acquired in the air are converted to ground dose rate and plotted as a series of profiles. A radial (spokes-of-a-wheel) flight line pattern provides easy position control and concentrates sampling density over the plant site. The 5- to 8-fold range of natural and man-made radiation background within 10 miles of the three plant sites is statistically well characterized by over 14,000 spectra taken directly from 3.8% of each 314 square mile survey area. The aerial dose estimates agree closely with thermoluminescence dosimeter (TLD) data taken on the ground over three month periods. The instrumentation system, survey rationales, data reduction, and analysis procedures are described."
"The ground-level airborne radionuclide concentrations and the resulting dose to man have been measured in the vicinity of Barnwell, S.C., during 1971, 1972, and 1973. These measurements, which were made as part of a preoperational baseline study for a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant, include gross alpha-beta and high resolution Ge(Li)-NaI(Tl) gamma-ray spectrometry using air filters, tritium (HTO) measurements using silica gel, and dose measurements using LiF thermoluminescence dosimeters. The observed levels of approximately 20 nuclides can be explained by contributions from worldwide fallout, natural process and naturally occurring terrestrial nuclei, and normal seasonal variations. There has been a considerable decline in levels during the latter part of 1972 and first half of 1973. The average annual dose to man resulting from inhalation of most of the measured nuclei is only a very small fraction of the total dose received from normal background sources."
"The present environmental radiation state of the EBR-II site has been explored through application of new and highly sensitive methods which have resolved the environmental gamma and meson components at this highly relevant LMFBR site. The external gamma-ray radiation dose rate in the immediate vicinity of EBR-II (for gamma rays of energy in excess of 220 keV) was observed to be about 6 μrad/hr. The cosmic-ray meson component contributes an additional dose rate of about 4.5 μrad/hr. These two components result in an annual external dose to man of approximately 92 mrads. Although analysis of the gamma-ray spectra and soil samples reveals that the gamma-ray component is overwhelmingly derived from naturally occurring isotopes, statistically significant amounts of 137Cs and 125Sb (fission products). were observed in soil samples collected during this site survey. In addition, sizeable variations in the observed concentrations of 125Sb, 137Cs, 238Pu, and 239Pu of these EBR-II soil samples would appear to imply a non-uniform deposition pattern. However, the observed non-uniformity could be due to either local releases of fission products or drifting of surface soil containing fallout products. While fallout is certainly a significant contribution to the measured deposition, observed patterns and correlations qualitatively suggest that very low level releases could possibly have occurred at the EBR-II site some time in the past. Quantitative conclusions cannot possibly be based upon the very limited data available from the present site survey."
 "A programmable, automatic system was developed to analyze multiple samples by either neutron activation analysis or nondispersive X-ray analysis. The system incorporates a Nuclear Data Series 2200 multichannel analyzer and a NOVA 800 minicomputer. An analyzer-computer interface, a sample changer, and computer software were designed and developed. The completed system was tested to illustrate its usefulness."
"This paper outlines the elementary principles of energy dispersive X-ray fluorescence spectrometry with special reference to multielement analysis of pollutants. Typical equipment, using radioisotope sources for X-ray excitation, is described and some results are given for analysis of air particulates, wear debris in oils and suspended and dissolved solids in fresh water. The use of \"thin\" specimens is discussed for reducing interelement and particle size effects, increasing sensitivity and simplifying preparation of standards and samples."
"Elemental analysis for all of the light elements up through chlorine by elastic scattering of 16 MeV protons has been shown to be feasible. Basic problems associated with such measurements are discussed including kinematics, angular distribution, and sample backings. Spectra are presented for air particulate matter for both a total filter (Nuclepore) and a size fractionated air impactor (polystyrene backed) sample. The method is absolute, non destructive and can be used in conjunction with proton induced x-ray fluorescence to quantitatively analyze all elements in the same sample in minutes of time."
"An effort has been made to construct a heavy-ion scanning microprobe. Some preliminary results on beam-optics are presented, and a new technique for measuring the beam spot size is reported here. The performance of ion beams as a source for characteristic x-ray production has been studied. As a justification of this work, a brief comparison is made between the x-ray excitation probabilities of protons and heavy ions on the one hand, and that of electrons and x-rays on the other. The present work is a first step toward the future construction of a high resolution ion microprobe which would have a beam size smaller than 1 μm."
"Samples of fissile material can be assayed by bombarding with 300-to 600-keV neutrons and counting delayed neutrons from fission. Interrogating neutron energy selection is based upon considerations of sample penetrability and insensitivity of response to nonfissile isotopes. Significant cost savings in nuclear safeguards and quality control are possible."
"A low-flux, 252-californium neutron source has been employed for the radioactivation of silver in ancient and rare coins. By careful control of the activation time and cooling period, a high degree of selectivity for silver was achieved. Data were normalized to compensate for self-shielding by employing empirical correction factors. Nondestructive measurements of the silver contents of coins having historical or numismatic value was possible."
"Work has been continued on the development of techniques for imaging spatial elemental distributions by means of differential absorption about the K-absorption edge of the particular element Z. A method to correct for spurious effects due to differential absorption in overlying absorber is described. Initial clinical studies of thyroid iodine images on patients are presented. Application of absorption edge transmission scanning to thin in-vitro samples of bone is also discussed."
"The technique presented is an approach to absorp tion edge transmission imaging which eliminates the need for monoenergetic x-ray sources, detector scanning, and energy analysis of transmitted x-rays. Subtraction of images formed with heavily filtered x-ray beams peaked at energies above and below the K absorption edge is accomplished with image-intensified fluoroscopy equipment coupled to a pair of storage tubes. Images of iodine and xenon concentrations of 1 mg/cm2 have been imaged in 15 cm phantoms in a few seconds. When automated, the system will provide similar sensitivity in 20 cm phantoms, with imaging times of 1 second or less with resolution on the order of 1 mm. Several preliminary images are presented which relate to possible future clinical studies."
"High purity germanium offers excellent potential for use in nuclear medical imaging cameras. A position and energy readout technique using two inexpensive delay lines has been developed for these cameras. Results obtained with a 1-cm2 , 4 mm deep, 5×5 strip high purity germanium detector are 2.1 mm full width spatial resolution, a measured single strip resolution of 0.65 mm full width half maximum (FWHM), a 25 element uncollimated energy resolution of 2.95 keV FWHM, and 2.65 keV FWHM for a single central element at 140 keV."
"A prototype gamma camera system has been constructed which is based on a high purity germanium detector fabricated with orthogonal strip electrodes. In this device, position sensitivity is obtained by connecting each contact strip on the detector to a charge-dividing resistor network. Excellent energy and spatial resolution have been achieved by cooling the resistor network to 77°K and by proper selection of noise filtering parameters in the pulse shaping amplifier circuitry. The significant advantage of employing this charge-splitting detector in a semiconductor gamma camera system is its electronic-readout simplicity, requiring only three amplifier channels to measure the energy and two-dimensional location of gamma ray events. A complete discussion of our investigation of the charge-splitting detector concept is presented with special reference to its potential use in the construction of a high resolution gamma imaging system having sufficient field of view and sensitivity for clinical utilization. Several orthogonal strip-electrode germanium detectors have been fabricated and evaluated experimentally in our laboratory. The most recent of these measures 2 cm × 2 cm × 5 mm thick and incorporates 10 contact strips on each surface which are spaced on 2 mm centers. The measured FWHM energy and spatial resolutions were 5.5 keV and 1.66 mm, respectively. Theoretical calculation of the magnitude of noise in the energy channel and comparison of these values to measured data shows that correlated noise cancellation significantly enhances the energy resolution in this type of charge splitting device."
"The radioisotope response characteristic of a proposed coincidence mode imaging system consisting of an appropriately designed focusing collimator with a gamma camera modified for second moment measurement are calculated for a range of design parameters. Analytic criteria for the detection of small filling defects imbedded in a radioactive medium are developed which directly relate to some of the practical complexities involved in lesion detection. The calculated performances indices of the system suggest that it may be possible to detect lesions significantly smaller than those currently observable."
"The use of the multiwire proportional chamber in a Fresnel zone plate coded aperture gamma-ray imaging system is described. Image reconstruction is by computer using the fast Fourier transform algorithm. Criteria for design parameters of the imaging system are established. A calculation of the signal/noise ratio of images reconstructed from computer-generated on-axis zone plate holograms gives values, for larger numbers of gamma-ray events, which are somewhat smaller than theoretical values based on a shot-noise formula. The use of a positive and a negative zone plate combination is shown to eliminate the large background usually associated with on-axis zone plate imaging."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present a comprehensive comparison of the different rare-earth oxysulfide x-ray screens. Relative speed and resolution of Y2O2S:Tb, La2 O2S:Tb and Gd2O2S:Tb as used with conventional x-ray film and experimental (green sensitive) x-ray film are reported. A comparison is also made of the performance of the experimental rare-earth oxysulfide screens and commercial CaWO4 screens. Both La2O2S:Tb and Gd2O2S:Tb are observed to be considerably faster than Y2O2S:Tb and CaWO4 for screens of comparable resolution. La2O2S:Tb perform better for tube voltage below 90 kVp. Above 90 kVp, Gd2 O2S:Tb is best. These performance characteristics are related to the quantum utilization of the screens. The quantum utilization is defined as the fraction of the x-ray energy incident upon the screen that is actually absorbed by the screen. Calculations of the quantum utilization for oxysulfide and CaWO4 screens are presented."
"For energy in the range 1 to 25 MeV, phosphor screens alone provide an image of unsatisfactory diagnostic quality. The combination of a metal and phosphor intensifying screen provides improved image quality. The dependence of the light output of such a screen system upon choice of metal, metal thickness, choice of phosphor, and phosphor thickness is presented. Certain metal and phosphor combinations are shown to have sufficient light output for viewing with a low-light-level TV camera."
"A stationary radionuclide imaging system employs a planar scintillation crystal viewed by multiple photodetectors. A new positioning technique allows use of signal information that must be discarded by conventional cameras. A calibrator generates photodetector signal patterns characteristic of known radiation source locations. Unknown sources are positioned by matching signal patterns of their radiations with the stored calibration signal patterns. The integral of individual location is displayed as a corrected image."
"Knowledge of the intracranial pressure would prove medically valuable in the treatment of congenital hydrocephalus and severe head trauma. An indwelling sensor, utilizing a radioactive material as the pressure transmission signal has been developed. The unit is compact, totally implantable, requires no electrical power, and is self-compensating for external temperature and pressure. Development of the sensor has proceeded through in vitro and primate in vivo testing. Clinical trials are expected in early 1974."
"This paper describes the authors' approach to the problem of long term intracranial pressure measurement. Several prior devices have not proven useful for clinical studies of more than a few days duration. Study of 22 of the authors' devices in primates has established the validity of both engineering and medical design assumptions. Useful pressure data has been collected for up to 2 months. Redesign to decrease tambour permeability should allow a useful life of months or years."
"Over 50, 000 implantable cardiac pacemakers are in use to rehabilitate patients with heart block. The chemical batteries powering these pacemakers usually fail within a few years. A variety of nuclear batteries, with the potential of providing long-lived (10 - 20 years) pacemaker power, are under development. This paper reviews the status of this development. Nuclear-powered pacemakers have reached the stage of clinical evaluation. Their cost, although initially high, is not prohibitive. The primary problem inhibiting widespread application is the maintenance of fuel capsule integrity under all creditable conditions."
"A brief historical account of cell analysis and sorting by high-speed flow-through methods is presented. The status of the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory program in this area is described, including biological applications such as the measurement of the DNA content of mouse liver cells and cultured mammalian cells. Histograms of cellular DNA content can be analyzed mathematically by means of a least squares fitting code. The usefulness of this procedure in extracting information on the life cycle parameters of growing cells is demonstrated. A simple computer model of cell growth is used to demonstrate the accuracy of the fitting code and to elucidate shifts in the shape of the DNA histogram as a function of the fraction of cells in the DNA synthesis phase. A new electronic cell sorter is described with emphasis on new features that insure simplicity, reliability, ease of operation, flexibility, and efficiency. Future directions of both technological development and biomedical applications are considered."
"Measurement of the clearance of insufflated tantalum and barium sulfate powder from the lung is important in evaluating tantalum as a roentgenographic contrast agent, as well as in the investigation of lung clearance mechanisms. This report evaluates the technique of fluorescent excitation for measuring clearance of particulate tantalum and barium sulfate from the lungs, using a 2-Ci gadolinium-153 (153Gd) source and an 80 mm2 lithium-doped silicon (Si(Li)) detector."
"By taking advantage of the good energy resolution of CdTe detectors, gamma rays scattered by lead collimators can be rejected leading to excellent spacial resolution for medical probes. Since CdTe has over 100 times the photoelectric stopping power of Si at 140 keV (99mTc), the probe provides enough sensitivity that dental abscesses on the individual root tips of test animal teeth can be detected weeks before they are evident by radiographs."
"The proton radiative capture reactions, 12C(p, y)13N and 13C(p, y)14N, have been studied to determine their applicability for assaying materials for their 13C enrichment. This technique for determining carbon isotopic ratios compares favorably with the more classical analysis techniques for 13C tracer experiments."
"A windowless silicon radiation detector and biotelemetry system has been developed and used in the study of the function of organs of free ranging animals. The system consists of an implantable silicon radiation probe, a transmitter package, an FM receiver, and a data handling unit. The intensity of radioisotopes (RI) taken in the organs is measured continuously with an implantable probe with a 5 mm diameter sensitive area. The transmitter package is composed of an RI signal conditioner, and a transmitter. The prototype transmitter package is made of aluminum, and 2 × 6 × 9.5 cm in size. With electronic components included, it weighs 170 gm. The power consumption of the transmitter is about 100 mW, and is furnished from three 5 V mercury batteries. Two of them are used as the detector bias supply. The system was made of discrete electronic components because of their more reliability, lower operating voltage, and lower power consumption. The fundamental characteristics and field performance of the system were carried out using several dogs with the aid of radioisotopes. The application of the system like the study of liver metabolism of dog is discussed."
"The French PHENIX, the British PFR and the West German SNR-300 Prototype Fast Reactor neutron monitoring system concepts are reviewed and compared to U. S. systems. Emphasis is placed on the type of neutron detectors and preamplifier electronics being used. The French Series CFUC and the British Type P7 high temperature (~1050°F) fission counters are described and indicated performance discussed based upon published results. High temperature compensated ionization chambers manufactured in Europe and the U. S. are briefly covered. The European low level flux monitoring preamplifier philosophies are related and compared to present and planned U. S. systems. Major differences are noted and discussed. Recent test results from wide range systems mated with fission counters operating at 725°F in the EBR-II Nuclear Instrument Test Facility (NITF) are presented. The NITF facility is briefly described."
"Pattern recognition methods were applied to analyze and interpret neutron noise data from the High Flux Isotope Reactor (HFIR) at ORNL. The results show that it is feasible to detect some core component failures by means of machine-discemible differences in the time-dependent noise power spectra. These neutron spectra (signatures) were analyzed by using a cluster-seeking algorithm to derive a set of templates for automatic computer evaluation of the reactor's mechanical integrity and soundness."
"A current-pulse preamplifier with a differential input was developed for use with fission counters where there might be severe electrical interference. Tests with a vacuum tester coil show only a slight alteration of the normal noise background curve by the differential preamplifier but a great alteration by a single-ended preamplifier. Additionally, measurements show that if a differential current signal is obtained from the fission counter, the differential preamplifier can improve the signal-to-noise ratio (for electronic noise) nearly a factor of √2 over that of a single-ended unit. Tests of five prototypes built by a commercial manufacturer to RDT standards show good uniformity of performance, including gain stability, rise time, and linearity, well within the specified requirements."
"Radiation-hardened BF3 neutron detectors (proportional counters) have been selected for use as delayed neutron detectors in the failed fuel monitoring system of the Fast Flux Test Facility (FFTF) being constructed by the Westinghouse Hanford Company at Richland, Washington. These detectors must exhibit fpproximately 6 to 7 counts/sec (cps) per neutron/cm2-sec (nv) for neutrons while operating in a gamma environment of a about 1000 R/hr; thus, electronic counting systems capable of providing the best possible sensitivity must be used. In addition to exhibiting appropriate charge gain and sufficiently low noise, the preamplifier (or amplifier) must include at least one stage of differentiation to reduce gamma interference (pulse pileup) effects. The selection of the time constant depends on the rise time of the neutron-caused pulse from the BF3 tube and on the maximum gamma level in which the tube must operate. The conflicting requirements of large time constant to maintain pulse amplitude and small time constant to reduce gamma effects lead to an optimum value to achieve the best possible neutron detection sensitivity."
"A digital Fourier analyzer was programmed to perform reactor neutron noise analysis measurements and on-line processing of the data to obtain the steady-state reactivity. The system is suitable for recovering cross spectral density with low correlated-signal component and for repetitive measurements with efficient use of reactor time."
"A system is described that measures subcritical reactivity in nuclear reactors by the Inverse Kinetics Rod Drop (IKRD) technique. The analyzer was used in a large scale reactivity experiment performed in the Fast Flux Test Facility (FFTF) engineering mock-up core loaded in the ZPR-9 at Argonne National Laboratory. The hardware used in the system included (1) a computer operating in a real time environment, (2) an interface to condition the signals from seven neutron sensors located in the reactor core and to transfer them into the computer at fixed time intervals (provisions were made to interface signals from individual neutron detectors operating in either the current or the pulse mode of operation), and (3) a cassette tape recorder for permanent storage of the raw data. This system performs the following functions: (1) Examination of data from a Preselected neutron sensor during the steady state operation to determine when the transient (rod drop) begins, (2) Simultaneous acquisition and storage of data from all sensors once the test is in progress, (3) Solution of the inverse kinetics equation for each of the seven sensors in real time by the three point method, and (4) Display of significant results immediately after the conclusion of the test. The system allows the operator to determine the reactivity condition of the reactor immediately."
"A brief description of the EBR-II reactor and its supporting digital computer (which was designed to be transparent to the operator or experimenter) are discussed. Details of the system hardware and software are noted which allow the system to function as an operational and experimental support tool. Two types of experiments are discussed which demonstrate use of operational data for experimental support and the use of the computer in a dedicated experiment."
"The multichannel hodoscope at TREAT is capable of detecting motion of fuel resulting from intentional meltdown of fuel pins contained within a test capsule. The system has been in operation in its present form since 1969, having participated in over 50 transients. Operational experience and evolutionary improvements are the subject matter of this report. The rather complex hodoscope system, which is supported by an involved series of steps before results can be achieved, has worked well within design prediction. Computer-aided reconstruction of the data has been provided to obtain displays, plots, and movies of fuel motion events."
"A brief review of recent advances in the quantitative capabilities of the scanning electron microscope is presented. Special emphasis is placed on scanning transmission electron microscopy, X-ray techniques, secondary ion mass analysis, selected area electron channeling patterns, and image processing techniques. A systems approach to the development of the SEM as a research tool is recommended."
"A low noise JFET has been built with a small diode diffused in the gate circuit. For these initial experiments the chips were bonded to an available 4-lead ceramic insulated header. Both dc and pulsed reset methods are possible. The present experiments with a dc reset method indicate that the device when optimized should give, at low count rates, similar resolution to opto-electronic feedback. An output count rate of 20,000 c/s at 6 keV adds 150 eV of noise."
"A new type of ADC is being developed to satisfy the requirements of the HEAO high spectral resolution gamma ray spectrometer. This 13 bit design utilizes a double successive approximation technique that overcomes the usual differential linearity problem. Stability of a few ppm/°C, differential linearity of 2% and integral linearity of 0.05% have been demonstrated."
"An electrometer which uses a single MOSFET as the current-detecting and temperature-compensating element is described. The input drift is less than 3 x 10-15 A from -20°C to +40°C. This electrometer is used in radiological field instruments which have been operating continuously for over a year. It can resolve changes down to 0.1 μR/hr (2.5 × 10-15 A) in a background exposure rate of 6-10 μR/hr."
"The analysis of fast single transients has long been one of the most challenging problems in oscillography. The instrument described in this paper uses a scan converter tube with separate write and read electron guns and a silicon diode array target. The charge gain properties of the target are put to good use in achieving the ability to display, or to digitize in a 512 × 512 matrix, single transients one nanosecond or less in duration."
"A laser based optical densitometer system has been developed for scanning thin film dosimeters (T.F.D.'s). The system utilizes a laser beam whose wave length occurs in the maximum optical attenuation spectral range of the dosimeter film dye. A split beam comparitor technique allows accurate determination of radiation induced changes in the dosimeter film optical density."
"A specialized beam current integrator has been built for use in measuring cross sections for reactions which lead to radioactive products with halflives in the millisecond to hour range. The principle of operation, NIM module construction and typical example of results are described."
"An inexpensive, integrated circuit single channel analyzer, counter and ratemeter with a logic unit to drive a stepping motor for positioning a device such as a grating of a monochrometer or varying an applied voltage is described. In addition to the analyzer and counter, the circuitry includes a time base for control functions, circuits for synchronous counting to subtract photomultiplier or detector \"dark\" noise, a serial integrator for weak signals and a rate meter for larger signals, and the stepping motor logic. The system has been applied to studies of optical spectra produced in a gas proportional scintiallation counter, where single photon counting was utilized with a 3/4 meter monochrometer."
"A new approach is introduced for the design of Multi-User Real-Time Computer Networks. The approach leads to a system architecture called \"Functional Distribution\". Definitions of the concept and key issues of a practical implementation are discussed using as an example a Multi-User Experiment Control System. The discussion also includes the architecture of that hardware which has been traditionally referred to as the \"interface between an experiment and a computer\"."
"This paper describes the design features of a data readout system for multi-wire proportional chambers. The electronic circuitry for this \"amplifier-per-wire\" system has been designed in modular form to provide ease in system assembly, flexibility, and economy. Fast readout of the hit-pattern data is accomplished by using priority encoder integrated circuits for address generation and bit-parallel transfer of the output data words. About 7000 channels have been implemented using this system and an additional 4000 channels have been ordered. An analysis of cost per channel is given, based on the experience gained thus far."
"Experiments for studying nuclear polarization phenomena at ultralow temperatures require extreme precision in the collected data. The polarization of the applied field must be changed periodically and the data from gamma-ray spectra must be reduced as the experiment progresses. These experiments sometime run for days in order to obtain good statistical data and to reduce any errors induced by the system instrumentation. This paper describes a computerized system used to automate the necessary control and data handling functions for this class of experiment."
"This system has been designed to fullfill the needs of (e,e') and (e,e'p) experiments at the 600 MeV Linear Accelerator of Saclay. The configuration of the experimental set-up consists in two high resolution spectrometers and associated detectors. Localization of the particle is done for each spectrometer, through a set of two multiwires proportional chambers; one being in the focal surface of the spectrometer. The time definition of the event will be taken from the fast coincidence of two high speed detector arrays. The main characteristic of this system is that it must accommodate the necessary high counting rate. The essential features of this realization are briefly described hereunder."
"CAMAC is used extensively in the laboratory for data acquisition purposes in conjunction with small computers. The use of CAMAC has been further extended into the area of peripheral interfacing, with the advantages both in convenience and cost. This development has made possible, for the first time, standardization of peripherals and interfaces while allowing advantage to be taken of new mini-computer developments."
"The interconnection between CAMAC crates and between the crates and a computer is called the CAMAC highway. The purpose of this paper is to present a brief summary of CAMAC highway configurations to put in perspective the highway papers that follow and to serve as a starting point for the panel discussion on CAMAC highways."
"The current status of the Description and the proposed Specification on \"CAMAC SERIAL SYSTEM ORGANIZATION\" are reviewed. The concept of a Serial Highway and the use of Serial Crate Controllers for long line, multicrate applications will be compared to the existing Branch Highway and Crate Controllers for parallel, multicrate applications."
 "Implementation of the CAMAC serial highway using programmable crate controllers (SCC) provides some autonomy for each crate. A microcomputer chip is the heart of the SCC. ROM memory holds programs for controlling serial highway with local microprocessor programs written in IML for controlling CAMAC."
 "CAMAC has been used for data acquisition and control of nuclear measurement systems in the Vanderbilt University Nuclear Medicine Laboratory for approximately two years. The implementation of the CAMAC crate controller used with a PDP/9 computer is described. Data are acquired from three types of devices. These include a stationary multi-probe system, a computer driven scanner and a dual probe scanner not under computer control. Future extensions of our system are discussed, including the collection of data from higher data rate instruments (Anger-type scintillation camera) as well as computer networking. The CAMAC system required a higher initial dollar investment when compared to a single dedicated scanner interface. However, it provided a much more versatile and more easily expanded system. When a second device is added, we found that the use of CAMAC can be defended successfully on a cost basis alone. The CAMAC standard allows the replication of systems by laboratories without the large investments in time and money usually needed to interface specialized measurement systems to computers. The modularity permits orderly growth of systems and protects against obsolescence. Almost any standard would be better than no standard, and we plan to use CAMAC for all applications where data-transmission-rate requirements permit. We hope that users in the nonnuclear field will come to utilize CAMAC in their measurement and data reduction systems where similar benefits should be obtained."
"The role of CAMAC in the implementation of data links, terminal interfaces and communications subsystems is discussed with particular reference to the work at Daresbury. The advantages of using CAMAC in these applications is emphasized, together with its importance in the realization of integrated computer networks."
"A low level language, currently called IML, is being defined by the ESONE and NIM-CAMAC Software Working Groups. It is intended for use in diverse system environments. An informal description of the language, including examples, is given."
"A multi-task programmable stand alone control system (CAMSAC) has been developed at NAL for the purpose of testing or controlling CAMAC modules/systems. Functionally the CAMSAC module acts as a branch driver and communicates with CAMAC crates via the Type A-1 crate controller, thus numerous crates may be used with this control scheme."
"This paper details the requirements of a dual multi-channel analyser system for use in the production testing of photomultiplier tubes. It describes how the system was effected by use of a CAMAC series of modules used to route data between the measurement facilities and a minicomputer, and how the computer program was designed to control the acquisition and provide a rapid visual record of the performance of each tube in order to increase the production testing throughput."
"The development of large readout systems for proportional wire chambers was hindered for some time by the lack of mass-produced hybrid or integrated circuits for the amplifier, shaper, delay, memory and readout elements. However, two large experiments, involving a total of 12,000 wires, have now been equipped with hybrid elements and incorporated in a CAMAC-interfaced readout highway."
"This system handles data from each Proportional Wire Chamber in parallel, forms computer words containing wire addresses. This data is transmitted bit serially at 10MHz to a CAMAC Module containing 16 words of storage. Double event resolution is less than 10μsec. Arithmetic logic can be performed for geometrical reconstruction of particle tracks."
"A digital beam monitoring system (BELIMOS) consisting of high spatial and time resolution multiwire proportional chambers and associated amplifier circuitry, and a CAMAC data acquisition system has been used to provide readout and display of beam profile and position information of the NAL secondary beam lines."
"A single crate controller has been developed to run with an automatic, blocking DMA channel. The execution of a CAMAC command stored in the controller is triggered by a selected LAM. An analog-to-digital (ADC) interface module utilizes the features of this controller module to store multiparameter pulse height analysis data in a core memory buffer. Four ADC's can be operated in combinations of singles and coincidence mode with automatic stacking provided. The above modules have been in operation in the laboratory since February, 1973."
"A CAMAC interface and control module has been developed at NAL for the Hewlett-Packard 3485A scanning DVM. This system is used to scan a number (≤ 50) of analog channels, digitize them and store the signed digitized value, channel number, scale factor and overflow indicator into a solid state buffer memory. An optional multiplexer unit may be added to the basic scanning system to expand the number of analog channels, which may be scanned, to four hundred."
"This paper discusses selected instrumentation and control experience from the startup of Oconee I which is an 886 MWe nuclear generating and first-of-a-kind design."
"The Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station is a 690 MWe General Electric designed Boiling Water Reactor. Pilgrim is located forty (40) miles south of Boston at Plymouth, Mssachusetts. It is situated on the Atlantic Seaboard (Cape Cod Bay) and uses circulating sea water for condensate cooling in the condenser. Pilgrim was granted a construction permit in August, 1968, achieved initial criticality in June, 1972 and began commercial operation in December, 1972. Bechtel Corporation was the prime contractor. For the first six (6) months of commercial operation, Pilgrim achieved a percent availability of 91.7 percent. I am pleased to report that generally speaking, the instrumentation and control system problems which developed during construction, startup and operation were of a routine nature. No outstanding problems arose requiring indepth re-evaluation and drastic design changes. The instrumentation and control systems have performed as expected. No false scrams have occurred which could be attributed to design deficiencies. Station Technical Specifications require that extensive routine testing on operating equipment be continuously performed to verify operability and locate and eliminate problems that could negate the required operability of said instrumentation when required. This paper discusses some of these Instrumnntation and Control System problems encountered and the solutions to these problems. This paper describes four (4) problems covering design and operating experience with the control and instrumentation systems for Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station Unit 1."
"This paper evaluates the initial installation, startup, and operation of the Maine Yankee Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) instrumentation and control equipment. Major instrumentation and control system and components will be evaluated with regard to problems which occurred during initial testing and operations. Resulting modifications are described."
"This paper is intended to describe the Indian Point No. 3 electrical facility in general and some of the major electrical modifications made to the original plant design. These design changes involved modifications to the offsite power suppy system, the plant D.C. system, the diesel fuel oil transfer system and other hardware and circuitry within the \"safeguard\" system. It should be understood that many of the modifications came about during the later stages of plant construction. This, of course, limited the designers freedom in developing feasible solutions to various problems encountered."
"Nuclear power plant control room design and layout snould be substantially standardized to enhance safety and also for improved human engineering, operability, and economy."
"This is a report on some construction problems within the control room and its associated cable spreading rooms that are due to space limitations, poor access for electricians, and state-of-the-art changes initiated during the testing phases of a nuclear generating plant. The effects of these problems on manpower are discussed. Solutions for the specific problems are suggested in conjunction with the overall recommendation for more active participation by the construction engineer with the designers, manufacturers, and clients in regard to initial layout of these critical areas, including wire space allowances in the control packages."
"Basic separation philosophy has been stated in the Code of Federal Regulations 10CFR50 and in IEEE 279 and 308. More detailed guidelines in the form of a standard should be developed to supplement these standards and to establish some quantative values. Major road-blocks in the development of such a standard are definitions, inclusion of non-safety class circuits and equipment, and the utilization of restricted areas."
"The key to expeditious design, construction and licensing of today's Nuclear Power Plant is standardization - standardization of site arrangement, building arrangement, control room layout, system design and construction. This paper considers the problems of standardizing only one of these areas - the control room. The obvious questions asked are: . Can the room arrangement be standardized? * Will incorporation of design improvements be significantly restricted? * How can standardization be implemented? A review of the factors that affect the room arrangement, such as building dimensional constraints, operational requirements and economics, indicates that a standard arrangement can be achieved. Improvements can also be incorporated, after sufficient evaluation, through the release of a new updated standard. And finally, some solutions to the implementation question may be to establish licensing priorities, to limit supplier design options and to establish standards through engineering societies. The mounting energy crisis is forcing decisions in many areas and the obvious advantages of standardization will become even more evident in the immediate future."
"The design and construction of nuclear power plants has always involved much effort in the electrical area relative to that required in many other industries. This is a result of the relatively large quantities of components that are centrally controlled and plant variables that are centrally monitored, together with separation criteria imposed on safety - related circuits. The Floating Nuclear Plant has basically these same considerations in electrical design and construction as a land-based plant, but in addition has a much shorter plant manufacturing lead time as a design objective. Thus, the electrical installation -- which is typically on the critical path at peak effort near the end of the plant construction schedule -- could be a bottleneck if conventional electrical installation methods were used. This paper discusses a design for reducing electrical installation lead time by reducing termination time and maximizing simultaneous installation effort through use of a prefabricated control module."
"The use of simulators for training power plant operators is becoming more widespread. A key element in the development of power plant simulators is design data. This predicted data can be categorized as: physical characteristics, general plant physics, and logic and transfer functions. This data must be reduced for use in a simulator. The special requirements of real time training simulation influence the data reduction and application. Later, after actual plant performance is recorded, the simulator programs can be adjusted. Currently, the design data is obtained from numerous sources and the approach on each simulator has varied somewhat. An industry standard as to simulator data requirements is needed."
"This paper provides an up to date status report of the Standards development in the Quality Assurance area by IEEE Nuclear Power Engineering Committee (IEEE/NPEC)."
"Nuclear reactor containments, especially in the imnediate vicinity of the primary system, are generally not accessible to plant personnel for inspection during reactor operation. Some contaimnent systems are operated with nitrogen enriched atmospheres making personnel entry very difficult, for extended periods of operation. There are three barriers between the fissile materials and fission products in the nuclear fuel and the environment. The first barrier is the fuel cladding, the second is the reactor coolant pressure boundary, and the third is the reactor containment. This paper treats one aspect of the maintenance of the integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary - the reactor coolant leakage detection system. In addition, during the plant lifetime the integrity of the primary system is ensured by many safety systems, administrative controls and various surveillance, test and inspection program . This paper discusses an \"ideal\" leakage detection system, compares it to present systems, and offers a basis for improving present systems to a level closer to the ideal."
"The unique problems associated with cables for nuclear fueled power plants are discussed with emphasis on flame retardation, corrosion and insulation life. Comparison between actual life and laboratory tests conditions are made. Test methods are described and discussed in relation to specification requirements."
"This paper describes the multiplexed I/O system and the specifically designed interface to computers for use in HTGR nuclear power plants. The overall system design philosophy and functional requirements are discussed, including cost and reliability incentives, message format, data security and data rate, and system functional elements. Engineering design details of the system are described, with particular emphasis on the I/O system architecture and the computer to I/O system interface."
"A numerical solution is provided that may be used to predict the electromagnetic field within a partially evacuated cylindrical cavity excited by a pulse of ionizing radiation. Several examples are given to illustrate the pressure dependence of the nonlinear response and to acquaint the reader with principal characteristics of this response."
"An uncharged two-conductor transmission line is considered whose ends are terminated in resistances. Initially the line is assumed to be charged along its length for a time interval that is short compared to the transit time along the line, as in the case of a cable irradiated with x rays. It is shown that the distribution of the subsequent energy dissipation in the line and its terminations can be calculated in closed form if the line is assumed to have low losses. The result here is of interest in some internal electromagnetic pulse (IEMP) problems."
 "This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The Affiliate Plan, established by the IEEE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of the IEEE, but who have an interest in the field of plasma science, to join the IEEE Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society listed here. Affiliates pay a special fee, and have all Society privileges except that of holding elective office. Affiliates receive the IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"We first introduce informally our grammatical scheme for modeling the generation or growth of data structures which can be viewed as the neighbor relations (topologically invariant) for planar maps, permitting binary division of \"countries\" or \"cells\", motivated by biological considerations and by the desire to generate successive patterns in the Lindenmayer fashion (i.e., by simultaneous application of rules to every cell). We give simple examples illustrating application of the rules of such grammars, and make further remarks in the biological context. Next we present formal definitions for our 2-dimensional grammars. Finally, we give some formal results for our systems; for convenience, the terminology is often that of maps and countries (rather than patterns or organisms and cells)."
"We consider random access machines with a multiplication operation, having the added capability of computing logical operations on register are considered both as an integer and as a vector of bits and both arithmetic and boolean operations may be used on the same register. We prove that, counting one operation as a unit of time and considering the machines as acceptors, deterministic and nondeterministic polynomial time acceptable languages are the same, and are exactly the languages recognizable in polynomial tape by Turing machines. We observe that the same measure on machines without multiplication is polynomially related to Turing machine time-thus the added computational power due to multiplication in random access machines is equivalent to the computational power which polynomially tape-bounded Turing machine computations have over polynomially time-bounded computations. Therefore, in this formulation, it is not harder to multiply than to add if and only if PTAPE = PTIME for Turing machines. We also discuss other instruction sets for random access machines and their computational power."
"This paper proves a conjecture of Meyer and Stockmeyer, that the equivalence problem of regular expressions over one letter alphabets, with the operations of union, concatenation, Kleene star, negation and squaring, is solvable in elementary time and space. This is done by reduction of this problem to Presburger Arithmetic, making use of an algorithm presented by Oppen."
"We study the class of P-Complete problems and show the following: i) for any constant ε ≫0 there is a P-complete problem for which an ε-approximate solution can be found in linear time ii) there exist P-Complete problems for which linear time approximate solutions that get closer and closer to the optimal (with increasing problem size) can be found iii) there exist P-Complete problems for which the approximation problems are also P-Complete."
"Several polynomial time algorithms finding \"good,\" but not necessarily optimal, tours for the traveling salesman problem are considered. For the nearest neighbor method, the worst case ratio of the obtained tour to the optimal tour is shown to increase logarithmically with the number of cities. For another method, which we call the nearest insertion method, the worst case ratio is shown to approach 2 as the number of cities increases. It is also shown that for any n ≥ 8, there are traveling salesman problems with n cities having tours which are k-optimal for all k ≤ n/4, and for which the ratio with respect to the optimal is 2(1 -1/n)."
"The equivalence problem for languages accepted by deterministic pushdown automata is shown to be decidable if and only if the strong equivalence problem for monadic recursion schemes is decidable. The proof is obtained through a series of reductions, and several different classes of acceptors are introduced."
"The equivalence problems for uninterpreted recursive program schemes and deterministic pushdown automata are reducible to each other. The equivalence class of a scheme is characterized by an infinite tree which is generated by the scheme as a language by a context-free grammar and which satisfies the equations of the system. Such trees are called algebraic. Roughly speaking, a tree is algebraic iff the set of its finite branches is a deterministic language. The interreducibility of the two equivalence problems for schemes and DPDA's follows."
"Many apparently divergent approaches to specifying formal semantics for programming languages are applications of initial algebra semantics. Here we provide an overview of the concept of initial algebra semantics."
"A program schema which models straight line code admitting structured variables such as arrays, lists, queues etc. is considered. A set of expressions is associated with a program reflecting the inputoutput transformations. Given a set of basic axioms defining expression equivalence the class of programs with equivalent expression sets is characterized by a minimal complete set of equivalence preserving transformations on programs."
"An IP-schema (Ianov schema with pushdown memory) has one register just as for Ianov schemas, but the finite-state control is augmented by a pushdown memory that can only be used for storing the contents of the register or fetching the contents of the top to the register. An IP(k)-schema is an IP-schema which uses only the first k memory locations of the pushdown memory. Let CIP(k)(or CIP) be the class of IP(k)-schemas (or IP-schemas, respectively). It is shown that CIP(0)CIP(1)IP(2)... , and for any i, CIP(i)CIPand that the strong equivalence problem for the class CIPis decidable. This answers the conjecture by Indermark positively in a stronger form. It is shown that the divergence problem for deBakker-Scott schemas augmented with a memory location M for which only the following two operations are permitted: M ← X and X ← M is undecidable. Finally, it is shown that the strong equivalence problem for IP-schemas with some functions specified to be invertible is decidable. Thus, Chandra's result on Ianov schemas with one invertible function is strengthened."
"We examine the efficiency of generalized hash-coding algorithms for performing partial-match searches of a random-access file of binary words. A precise characterization is given of those hash functions which minimize the average number of buckets examined for a search; and a new class of combinatorial designs is introduced which permits the construction of hash functions with worst-case behavior approaching the best achievable average behavior in many cases."
 "We investigate the complexity of network selection by measuring it in terms of U(t,N), the minimum number of comparators needed, and T(t,N), the minimum delay time possible, for networks selecting the smallest t elements from a set of N inputs. New bounds on U(t,N) and T(t,N) are presented. In particular, U(3,N) is determined to within a constant of 2, and asymptotic formulae for U(t,N) and T(t,N) are given for fixed t."
"Let U1,U2,...,Udbe totally ordered sets and let V be a set of n d-dimensional vectors in U1× U2× ... × Ud. A partial ordering is defined on V in a natural way. We consider the problem of finding all maximal elements of V with respect to the partial ordering. The computational complexity of the problem is defined to be the maximum number of required comparisons of two components and is denoted by Cd(n). It is trivial that C1(n) = n-1 and Cd(n) ≤ 0 (n2) for d ≥ 2. previous results are Cd(n) ≤ 0 (n log2n) for d = 2,3. in this paper, we show 1. Cd(n) ≤ 0 (n(log2n)d-2) for d ≥ 4. 2. Cd(n) ≥ ⌈log2n! ⌉ for d ≥ 2."
"We examine a class of heuristics for maintaining a sequential list in approximately optimal order with respect to the average time required to search for a specified element, assuming that we search for each element with a fixed probability independent of previous searches performed. The \"move to front\" and \"transposition\" heuristics are shown to be optimal to within a constant factor, and the transposition rule is shown to be the more efficient of the two. Empirical evidence suggests that transposition is in fact optimal for any distribution of search probabilities."
"various operations on graphs, matrices, or relations can be executed more quickly when the arguments are \"sparse\" (i.e., if e ≪ ≪ v2where e is the number of edges and v the number of vertices) than when they are \"dense\" (i.e., e ≈ v2). Fast algorithms are presented for a large class of operations on sparse relations. These algorithms are used to produce the best known methods for solving a variety of grammar problems relevant to parsing. Letting the size n of a grammar be the sum of the lengths of all of its productions, we discuss the following - (1) finding linear precedence functions in 0(n) steps; (2) computing precedence relations in 0(n2) steps; (3) LR(0), SLR(1), and LL(1) testing in 0(n2) steps; and (4) polynomial algorithms for LL(k), SLR(k), and LR(k) testing, for fixed k."
"The problem of finding the minimum amount of fanout needed to realize a switching function f is investigated. Fanout-free functions are defined, and necessary and sufficient conditions for a function to be fanout-free are derived. A measure τ(f) called the input fanout index, is introduced which represents the minimum number of input variables that fan out in any realization off. It is shown that τ(f), can be determined from the prime implicants and implicates off. Another measure of fanout µ(f), which is the minimum number of signal lines that must fan out in any network realizing f is defined, and some of the properties of µ(f) are examined."
"An important open question in the field of computational complexity in the development of nontrivial lower bounds on the number of logical operations required to compute switching functions. Although counting arguments can be used to show that most Boolean functions of n inputs and 0(n) or fewer outputs have complexity growing exponentially in n, no one has yet exhibited a particular such function whose unlimited fan-out combinational complexity is known to grow faster than linearly in n when a functionally complete set of primitive operations is allowed. In this paper, we consider the class of monotone increasing Boolean functions. These correspond to the functions which can be computed using only two-input OR and AND operations, an incomplete set of primitives. We develop techniques for proving functions of n inputs and 0(n) outputs have nonlinear combinational complexity if only OR and AND operations are allowed. We do this by demonstrating that binary sorting requires 0(n log n) operations, and by exhibiting a set of n Boolean sums over n variables which requires 0(n3/2) operations."
   "We consider some of the important unsolved problems in the theory of computation concerning the relationship between deterministic and nondeterministic computations, and between tape and time bounded computations. For each such problem we find an equivalent problem concerning two way deterministic pushdown automaton languages. This is the first time many of the open problems have been reduced to questions about one class of automata."
"A system of flowchart program schemata is viewed as a schema for a class of natural computational complexity measures. Certain properties of this class of measures, such as recursive enumerability of complexity classes and a weak notion of \"conformity\", are shown to derive from the schematic structure. Other properties, earlier proposed as \"natural\", are shown to be more superficial, depending upon the interpretation given to the primitive operations. These are \"properness\", \"finite invariance\", and \"density\". Two other natural properties of the flowchart measures are given, together with a short assessment of-possible progress in defining \"naturalness\" in complexity measures."
"Recent work [AJU, E1, E2] has shown that substantial improvements in both the size and the running time of a bottom-up parser often can be realized by constructing the parser using an ambiquous underlying grammar. Various heuristic techniques are used to resolve action conflicts in the parser which result from the ambiquity of the grammar. In this paper we present a method for construction of such a parser, which includes previous methods and generalizes on them. Our method has the property that we can decide equivalence of the constructed parser to an original unambiquous grammar generating the intended language. Section I contains some terminology and a brief review of the theory of LR parsing. In Section II we define a \"n-skeletal grammar.\" We then present the algorithm for construction of a \"skeletal LR (k) parser.\" A skeletal LR(k) parser for G is shown to parse correctly every word in L(G), and to have the immediate error detection property of the canonical LR(k) technique. However, it shares with the precedence techniques of [GH, F] the defect that the parser may accept a proper superset of the intended language. An algorithm to decide whether a skeletal LR parser is \"valid\" for G (i.e., accepts exactly L (G)) is given in Section III. This algorithm applies to the precedence techniques as well. In Section IV we define \"local consistency\" of a skeletal LR parser, a condition which is shown to be sufficient for validity of the parser, and which can be tested with substantially less computation than is required for the general decision algorithm of Section III. Finally, the local consistency condition is applied in Section V to show two wide classes of grammars for which valid skeletal LR parsers can be constructed."
"Two characterization theorems for the class of context-free grammatical families are given. The characterizations are expressed in terms of the family of regular sets, the family of linear sets, and the following language-family operators: union, concatenation, the full semi-AFL operator, the full AFL operator, and a new ternary substitution operator."
"Advances in LSI technology have led to problems concerning the selection of output functions for optimum complex logic modules. A natural criterion for the evaluation of possible designs is the structure of the set of all subfunctions of the function realized by a module. Thus studying properties of the sub-function sets of Boolean functions is an approach to solving the above problems. In the paper some general results on Boolean functions having the largest sets of subfunction classes are presented and methods for constructing such functions are discussed."
    "The advance of passive-component technology has been overshadowed by the semiconductor revolution. However, the semiconductor challenge for better performance has not gone unanswered, and passive components have shrunk and become more reliable."
"Precision is required to make an accurate wire-wound potentiometer. This article describes how this precision is achieved and discusses the standards available to measure it."
   "There was a time when British standards and practices were mandatory or preferred by a quarter of the globe; this is no longer so, and competition is intense. How can British firms discover and secure new markets?"
    "Economic and technical difficulties facing long-distance telephony in 1882 were largely solved when Francois van Rysselberghe superimposed telephone circuits on existing telegraph lines. Many countries in continental Europe and elsewhere therefore developed long-distance telephone networks long before Britain, where William Preece and Oliver Heaviside attempted to develop appropriate theories of long-distance transmission, the former erroneously, but the latter successfully"
   "Some thoughts of a practising engineer who is mildly alarmed at predictions of an insatiable demand for energy and prognostications of doom. He does not relish the thought of a 2 GW atomic power station in his own backyard, and so argues for the development of an indigenous inexhaustible low-pollution power base in which solar energy plays a major part"
   "Today's engineer is faced with a multiplicity of standards which he has first to understand and then to incorporate in his designs. For the British motor-control-gear engineer, an appreciation of the relation between British Standards and IEC recommendations is vital"
       "Post Office Telecommunications is part of the infrastructure of Britain. It affects the nation's conduct of its business, industrial, political and social affairs. In this shortened version of his IEE presidential address, James Merriman traces the role of engineering innovation in telecommunication during the past seven decades, and, by highlighting past trends, reviews future prospects for telecommunication in Britain and throughout the rest of the world"
         "Sceptical electrical engineers have yet to grasp the significance of today's cryogenics technology and its ability to allow conduction without joule or ohmic losses. How can this ability be applied to the heavy electrical-engineering industry?"
"The technology available to the circuit designer covers a wide range of performance and application. Microprocessors offer a general solution; other methods are more particular. Which method should he use?"
                                     "When the quartz-crystal watch costs £10, the semiconductor industry will have broken into a vast consumer market-nearly everyone owns a watch"
   "The ability to use positive, negative or alternating reference voltages provides flexibility to d.a. convertors, and flexibility can be converted to economics"
   "As scientific methods for determining the authenticity of art objects improve, so do the techniques used by master criminals in producing realistic forgeries. Fortunately, science remains one step ahead"
 "Set up about one year ago, the IEE Programme & Publications Committee's Design Subcommittee has been providing a focal point for design activity within the IEE. One of the projects arranged by the Subcommittee last May was a Colloquium on 'Design Innovation' held at Savoy Place (27th June 1974 IEE News, p. 1). The Subcommittee is also sponsoring articles on design for publication from time to time in Electronics & Power. The first of these articles, by Dr. R Hawley, Chairman of the Subcommittee, appears on pages 747-752 of this issue. The Subcommittee regard good design as a vital, and often much neglected, subject in the engineering world, and when asked for their views on design, members of the Subcommittee replied as set out in this article."
 "Power diodes and thryistors have been widely used in recent years for the conversion and control of electric power. The principal application of these semiconductor devices for the rectification of a.c. power to d.c. The present article reviews the areas in which solid-state rectifier circuits are now being applied with greatest success"
"In each aspect of a major electrical project, design criteria are vital. This article, the first in an occasional series on design, deals with the design considerations of the various departments involved in the project"
"During the last few years, developments in radio communication in British coal mines have been exciting considerable interest among those who require mobile communication in difficult situations"
  "Data communication has become one of the most rapidly growing sectors in the communication industry. This growth has, however, so far been in terms of independent systems. The requirements of a national data network are considered"
                                                 "Studies have been made of a very wide range of possible ways in which solar energy might be used for domestic, commercial and industrial purposes. Some are already economically viable and the prospects for others are good as the era of cheap fuel passes."
"British Rail's telecommunication system is both interesting in its technical involvement and wide in its scope of operational practices. It provides a modern general telephone service for administration and control, and facilitates data transmission for computer systems to enable railway management to achieve a competitive and efficient service for its customers."
"The applications of l.s.i. in the electronics industry are growing daily, and the modem is an example in which a special l.s.i. chip can lead to increased cost-effectiveness and simplicity of operation. The full life-cycle cost of the modem can be considered, and internal test patterns and other features can be incorporated using l.s.i."
"Ultrasonic techiques, many of which have analogues in radar, are complementary to other diagnostic methods in medicine. Their present status is described and some contemporary research is reviewed."
"A 10% reduction in road accidents would save approximately £40m p.a. and a reduction of 1 min per hour of journey time would save a similar sum. Therefore, by providing comprehensive traffic information and thereby improving driving conditions, considerable benefits can be obtained, benefits that also include safer roads."
"Measurement procedures and standards were among the problems selected from the subjects adopted for the 1972 CIGRE Conference on high-voltage transformers and discussed at a meeting at Savoy Place recently. The author reports the various views presented at the meeting."
               "The historic events of Marconi's life are well known. But what of his early years-the years that shaped his character and gave him the will, the confidence and the skill to overcome the strongly entrenched opposition from scientists, businessmen and politicians?"
"From about 1919 until his death in 1937, Marconi undertook the `second phase' of his work. This article examines this second phase, and, where possible, attempts to suggest a modern explanation to some of his experimental results"
"Did Marconi receive any transatlantic signal in 1901? If he did, how did the signal surmount the 160 km wall of water between Cornwall and Newfoundland? These two questions occupied the engineers and scientists of the day, and many were concerned with the commercial applications that the experiments heralded."
 "The development of electronic instrumentation is extensively influenced by materials availability and the economic environment. This article investigates those influences and looks at possible directions the industry might take"
"Two temperature tests have recently been devised for use on induction machines and synchronous machines. Temperatures are reached by synthetic loading, and the tests can be performed on free-standing machines."
"About 600 companies, including 109 `first-timers′, will br represented at the 10th International Instruments, Electronics & Automation Exhibition, to be held at Olympia, London, from the 13th to 17th May 1974. The exhibition will be the last to be held at Olympia, and from 1976 onward it will be held at the new national exhibition centre to be built in Brmingham, and it is possible that it will run concurrently with Electrex, forming one giant Continental-style electrical and electronics trade fair."
        "In the first part of this article (4th April 1974 E&P, p.224), it was suggested that nuclear power could bridge the energy gap that is fast developing. Since fast reactors are more efficient than the current thermal reactors, the former's introduction is eagerly awaited, but economics will probably determine how quickly they are ordered in large numbers."
"Modern aircraft contain a large amount of communication equipment of varied type. The original radiotelephone and 'intercom' systems have been added to by the inclusion of priority audio signals, which are used as warnings. To control these efficiently, a communication control system that will perform all the necessary switching and interfacing to provide a fully integrated system is required."
"When a matched pair of Scott-connected transformers is used in a synchro-digital converter, a high degree of transformed angular accuracy can be obtained. Several other benefits will also accrue, including possible reduction of package size."
                      "A large amount of effort is being spent on solid-state microwave generators. What changes to contemporary microwave radar systems are necessary, and what new uses could their introduction permit?"
"The townsman's image of the farmer as the slow pondering yokel with straw emerging from his ears has perhaps always been a distorted one. With today's farming systems and methods, the image is perhaps more distorted than ever before."
"Recent advances in semiconductor engineering have resulted in the dawning of semiconductor photodetectors. In this article, Michael Hampshire describes how a semiconductor works, and he mentions the various uses of its properties."
"A new type of strain gauge converts mechanical strains to capacitance changes instead of the conventional resistance changes. It allows measurements of static strain to be made at considerably higher temperatures."
                                            "Semiconductor memories are used for data storage where previously core memories were used. However, the low cost and the simplicity of semiconductor memories have allowed them wider applications - digital subsystems, remote meter reading and the replacement of moving mechanical parts."
   "Over the last decade, there has been a growing realisation that digital techniques can offer a number of cost and performance advantages when applied to telecommunication networks."
"The future for solid-state power electronics is one of continued growth and expansion. This article focuses on the more important and expanding areas in which solid-state electronics is changing the course of power engineering."
 "Can engineers support the world of management in their powerful hands? In this article, the author examines the arguments put forward in praise of and in deprecation of the engineer-manager."
"In marketing terms, the electronic-components industry is a law to itself. The marketing manager of any components company will have to forget all his classical training when it comes to marketing in this rapidly growing industry."
                "The printing world has traditionally been regarded as one hedged around with conservative, and in some cases old-fashioned, practices. However, in recent years, radical changes have taken place in colour processing with the introduction of the electronic colour scanner."
"The word 'live' is often used to describe the state of a conductor, but is the conductor safe to touch?"
"By his early recognition of the need for a sound scientific basis for units of electrical measurement, and his subsequent promotion of standardisation of these units, Lord Kelvin prepared a secure foundation for the electrical-engineering industry."
                     "A review of computer engineering in its social context by trying to identify the mechanisms that determined the evolution of computer systems, and which can be expected to continue to do so"
   "The thyristor chopper system, in which the commutating capacitor plays a vital part, is the modern method of controlling the speed of such vehicles as milk floats, fork-lift trucks and the recently introduced electric bus"
 "The British communication industry amply demonstrated its leading position in the world by attracting a host of visitors from overseas and announcing several large contracts during the recent Communications 74 conference and exhibition at the Metropole Convention Centre in Brighton."
 "Any designer must be aware of the critical constraints placed on the system he is designing. This article, the second in an occasional series on design sponsored by the IEE Design Subcommittee, looks at the parameters vital in the efficient design and use of turbine-generators"
   "As industry employs more a.c./d.c. thyristor drives, the effect and magnitude of harmonic currents injected into the supply become more significant. However, many people not conversant with convertor system design do not understand how the equipment they are using generates harmonics"
     "As electric power systems become larger and more heavily loaded, the problem of operating them economically assumes greater importance. The computer is just one of many methods now available to assist in this optimisation problem."
  "For just over a century, global communication has been a feasible proposition. Starting with the telegraph cable in 1866, this article traces the history of communication on a worldwide basis, and the part which radio has played."
"Holograms are commonly regarded as devices for producing three-dimensional pictures. Their potential in data storage is, however, enormous, although the ability to utilise the laser for information retrieval is not yet fully developed."
  "All too often, the electrical-engineering profession ignores the commercial implications in producing and selling electrical equipment in world markets. What is the commercial engineer's role and how can he tackle problems associated with obtaining and handling business in these world markets?"
 "Brain cell simulation by electronic means is investigated, and some background and approaches to building intelligent machines are described"
         "It is much more desirable therefore to use a balanced mechanism which, with careful material selection, will produce an inherently stable, long-life, positive-feel index"
   "Will the submillimetre region prove to be an arid desertߝor are there some gold nuggets, or even 'black gold', to be found by those prepared to search?"
"Electricity consumption should continue to rise despite a constant population. The UK has selected the s.g.h.w. reactor from the options available to satisfy a proportion of this demand. Both the timing of the decision and the choice of reactor are questionable"
"It did not take long in the early days of radio to discover that the atmosphere influenced radio signals as they were transmitted through it, with fundamental implications for the practice of radio communication"
 "The UK 2-tier higher-education system is stunting the polytechnics by discrimination. How can the polytechnics be allowed to fulfil their potential?"
"Any large industrial operation will need to have well defined standards of system performance and reliability. A complement to these standards is the formulation of a philosophy for testing and maintenance"
"How well does man know himself? Not nearly well enough for his efficient use. Man and computer need to be designed into a system, and they should each be doing the things they do best. What is man best at?"
"Computer time can cost up to £500 per hour and in the event of a power failure long programs lasting several hours may have to be completely rerun, representing a serious loss of revenue and possibly considerable inconvenience. For this reason many companies operating computers install standby generating plant"
"Electrical energy meters have not changed in principle for 90 years. Although developments have reduced friction between moving parts, wear and eventual reduction of accuracy is still present."
   "The use of solar cells to harness the energy of the Sun has attracted much publicity recently. How can the present devices be used realistically and effectively, to stimulate a market that will support developments for the future?"
         "Temperature control in an extruder is a complex problem. Time lags and temperature gradients can be overcome by several types of controller."
                                  "The overall efficiency of electric vehicles could be improved by redesigning the transmission system. One possible alternative to using conventional components is the disc-armature motor"
"Standby power supplies have become a necessity in British industry. New control methods enable them to be used in the most efficient way"
                       "The author of this article, who has had 15 years experience o interviewing applicants for electrical and communication posts in the petrochemical industry, feels that few applicants do themselves justice when applying for or attending an interview. Furthermore, although literature on conducting an interview is plentiful, there is a dearth of advice on how to apply for or attend one. Attention to the few guidelines listed below may be rewarded."
                        "The linear d.c. induction motor has many uses, especially in short-distance applications. Although it cannot be used for traction and long distances, the motor compares favourably with the linear induction motor"
       "In this energy-conscious age, the efficient generation and utilisation of power has assumed even greater importance than it once had. And efficiency has very often gone hand in hand with size. This review article analyses present-day trends in large electrical machines and, in particular, highlights a.c. motors, d.c. motors and water-turbine-driven a.c. generators"
"Many electronic systems are vulnerable to power-line disturbances, and the recording of these transients for study is particularly useful. By applying digital techniques to waveform capture, a useful tool has been developed"
"To date, no single recording technique exists to cope with every application. The analogue-recorder inquirer must weigh up the pros and cons of each available technique. The basic choice is simple: magnetic-tape or direct-write recorders"
"Such is the contrariness of human nature, that we have a battery-operated `wobbler' to move the eyes of the Esso tiger, rather than, say, making spectacle-frame wipers"
             "Bad weather means lost landing time for an airport and increasing costs for the airlines. An automatic instrument landing system should be the answer, but it has been regarded as a poor relation to manual control"
                   "In designing any storage system, the retrieval of data must be the main system consideration. The computer-based system considered in this article describes the software to aid retrieval"
"Misunderstanding of the term `quality assurance' is still widespread although most engineers should have come into contact with it by now. Even among those who have more than a superficial acquaintance with the term, there are different opinions on what it really means"
    "When Information Theory is applied to the marking of examination scripts, various interesting results arise. For example, it can be shown that an examination question gives little 'Information' when there is only a small spread of marks between the candidates or when few candidates attempt the question, thus giving a numerical measure of a previously suspected result."
"There is a different way of expressing the information supplied by a coefficient of reliability, which can give a false impression of high marking accuracy. The alternative, the signal/noise ratio, is a measure that is familiar to electrical engineers and gives a more meaningful indication of the errors involved"
"Mindless madness on the production line for £100 per week, or middle-management insecurity for the same pay. Are you producing quality with a sound mind and good disposition?"
                     "How can an individual decide what information should be stored in memory and what stored elsewhere? The manager-engineer is sometimes regarded as a walking, talking databank who ceases to divulge information when he is busy or goes home. There needs, therefore, to be a balance between fingertip storage and natural-memory storage"
             "This article presents the various ways in which methods can and cannot be used in conventional engineering design, what can and cannot be expected of them and why they play an important role in developing the mental skills of an engineering designer"
"Long-term planning often fails to materialise in the rush to solve an immediate problem. The energy crisis has produced a crop of solutions, most of them strategic as they aim to provide energy. Surely the best long-term energy policy is one of conservation"
 "In television, it is taken for granted that the best possible picture will be produced. In the theatre, a level of automation is required to create scenic effects, so that the attention of the audience is not distracted from the illusion being created to the mechanics of the illusion."
"`Get all the facts,' they say, `and then formulate an appropriate plan.' Yes, but the facts keep changing and you never know for certain when the final change has occurred. So judgment is needed as well as flexibility and an open mind. Fortunately the effort expended usually brings rewarding side effects, because after reweighing all the facts the final plan may simply retain the status quo"
"Facsimile transmission systems have undergone considerable development in Japan, where the typescript does not lend itself to the conventional methods of transmission. This article reviews those developments"
"The impact of bucket brigades and charge-coupled devices on the fields of imaging and memory has been well publicised, but what of their use as simple analogue delay lines?"
                      "Within the last five years, the turbogenerator has not been replaced as the fundamental power producer, but the combination of recent pressures to preserve and improve the environment and the fuel crisis have indicated the dangerous dependence of western civilisation on coal and oil."
"The importance of computer facilities for research has increased, and the advent of minicomputers has helped to make their use more meaningful. This article studies the development of computer usage in research laboratories."
"Apparently, objective tests are little used in electrical engineering. Yet, although they have undoubted limitations, they also have advantages, which make them worth considering as one means of assessment."
"Many systems of ripple reduction have been applied to accelerator power supplies, with varying amounts of success. A combination of three methods has been found to ensure the smooth running of the Nimrod synchrotron."
    "The newly graduated engineer can face many adaptive problems on joining a profit-motivated complex. In this article, Mr. Mayer explains how some of these problems are overcome in one company."
"An investigation into the use of the 12-GHz band and community antennas for local television services in West Germany."
                    "The North-East is often regarded as an unfashionable area, but it has delightful countryside, historic buildings, and (perhaps more importantly) some active, technologically based companies, as Electronics & Power discovered on a recent visit to Welwyn Electric."
                       "Power transmission by cable has been an engineering problem for a long time. What insulation should be used? How many conductors? How should they be cooled? These are just some of the problems that have faced power distribution engineers."
"Lights are an accepted part of everyday life, and they do not appear to have changed very much. However, a large amount of research on lights for industrial and other applications has been carried out and resulted in an improved technology."
        "The vacuum interrupter seems to be just what the distribution engineer needs. The ratings are right, the performance is good and it is almost maintenance free. However, is the cost right?"
"Although the focal point, and indeed the 'brains', of almost any process is in the control centre, few national standards have been published in this field. The new International Electrotechnical Commission standard may change this situation."
"The growth in the use of a product invariably results in a call for and the adoption of national standards. However, international trade and competition have brought into being a number of international standards. More recently, standardisation work, particularly within the European community, has been directed as much toward the abolition of technical trade barriers as toward harmonisation per se."
"Gallium phosphide is gaining an increasing share of the expanding market for l.e.d. materials. This article looks at the stages in the manufacturing process and reviews the multidiscipline engineering effort needed to create the equipment demanded by this new industry."
           "Wideband front-end systems using a high degree of linearity have superseded earlier systems. The receiver will be transformed into a system that will improve the efficiency of receiver stations."
"The computer industry has maintained a healthy growth rate in recent years. More sophisticated technology has led to smaller, yet more powerful, machines."
                 "Nuclear power is being developed to fill the energy gap from the 1980s onward. In times when oil was plentiful, the need for continued steady progress toward this objective was not always appreciated."
"Thermal stress can absorb some of the mental capacity of a worker and leave him tired at the end of the day. The factors affecting his thermal environment are varied and sometimes difficult to control economically. What amount of heating is therefore required for his physical comfort?"
                                     "Measurement is at the heart of science and technology. Without it, we encourage alchemy, astrology and the witchdoctor."
   "New developments in electronics technology appear at an ever-increasing rate, and it is often difficult to keep abreast of all the new devices available. What effect have recent developments had on electronic instrumentation?"
   "Although many nuclear-instrumentation techniques originated in the nuclear-research industry, they are being applied by engineers whose disciplines vary widely. Standards are necessary, and nuclear authorities have taken great interest in them."
   "The dependence of measurement technology on control techniques is continually growing. Feedback measuring systems provide ideal examples for an integrated course of study on the principles and practice of measurement and feedback."
   "Impedance matching is vitally important to the communication engineer. He must ensure that the power his sender generates is most efficiently used."
   "The specification of a digital multimeter can be varied to produce different measurement capabilities. Once the design philosophy has been chosen, circuit design can begin."
                        "Fast-breeder reactors like the Dounreay prototype are going to play an important part in providing future needs. The Dounreay prototype aims to prove its operational reliability and so be the pioneer for larger more powerful nuclear power stations."
  "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
    "There is a trend towards more elaborate architecture of redundancy for ultrareliable systems. When used with discretion, mathematical analyses do provide some useful yardsticks for the system engineer at the conceptual stage of a design. This paper provides a statement of conventional mathematical assumptions and the consequent limitations of the formulae which result from them. More importantly, the paper provides simple formulae for reliability prediction which assist rapid manual appraisals of a large number of possible configurations of majority voters and voter-switches (voter-switches combine voting with standby redundancy). In short order, the decision maker can appraise the potential benefit on system reliability of sophisticated redundancy."
"This paper considers the case of a 2-identical-unit redundant system with Erlang-failure and general repair distributions. Two cases are considered: 1) the failure of each unit is independent of the other; 2) when one unit fails, the failure distribution in the other unit changes. The Laplace transforms of the distribution of time to system failure and the explicit formula for the mean time to system failure are derived."
"The system consists of two identical units in parallel with good, degraded, and failed states. We discuss a maintenance policy that maximizes the expected net profit-rate from the system over an infinite time span. General equations which describe the system behavior under a certain maintenance policy are derived. The optimal maintenance policy can be determined by solving those equations."
"Optimum preventive maintenance policies are discussed to maximize the availability for a 2-unit standby redundant system. The Laplace-Stieltjes transform of the pointwise availability and the steady-state availability are derived by applying a unique modification of the regeneration point techniques under the assumptions that all the distributions are arbitrary. A theorem gives the optimum preventive maintenance time which is a unique and finite solution of the equation under certain conditions. A numerical example is presented."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a method of implicit enumeration that can be used in reliability problems to maximize system reliability subject to cost constraints. The method is based on a stochastic approach in which probability distributions are attached to families of allocations. Probability distributions permit the experienced scheduler to apply his experience as well as factors which are not taken directly into account by the mathematical form of the problem. This feature together with getting near-optimal solutions are its principal features. When compared to other methods, speed is gained because the cost projection part of the method deals with functions of random variables rather than methods such as linear programming. The method is presented for systems in which all components are in series."
"A class of repairable systems known as k-out-of-n:F systems, 1 ≤ k ≤ n, consists of n units in parallel redundancy which are serviced by a single repairman; system failure occurs when k units are simultaneously inoperable for the first time. In this paper, assuming constant failure rates and general repair distributions, reliability characteristics of the k-out-of-n:F system are treated using two different methods. In Part I, a conditional transform approach is applied to the 2-out-of-n:F system. Transforms of distributions are obtained for T (the time to system failure), the time spent on repairs during (0, T) and the free time of the repairman during (0, T). In Part II, the supplementary variable technique is used to investigate time to failure characteristics of the k-out-of-n:F system for k = 2 and k = 3. A model of an airport limousine service illustrates the use of the results."
"This paper deals with the theoretical problem of derving Bayesian confidence intervals for the reliability of a system consisting of both cascade and parallel subsystems where each subsystem is independent and has an exponential failure probability density function (pdf). This approach is applicable when test data are available for each individual subsystem and not for the enfire system. The Mellin integral transform is used to analyze the system in a step-by-step procedure until the posterior pdf of the system reliability is obtained. The posterior cumulative distribution function is then obtained in the usual manner by integrating the pdf, which serves the dual purpose of yielding system reliability confidence limits while at the same time providing a check on the accuracy of the derived pdf. A computer program has been written in FORTRAN IV to evaluate the confidence limits. An example is presented which uses the computer program."
"A reliability model is proposed with the usual continuous random variable representation of the working times of the system between failures. The model utilizes a probabilistic repair rule, via a Bayesian argument, in order to simulate decay (or improvement) of reliability in time."
"Two life testing procedures, namely, the progressively censored samples and Bartholomew's experiment are discussed under the assumption that the life of an item follows a specialized Weibull distribution. The scale parameter is different under two different conditions of usage of the item at regular intervals of time, the shape parameter remains unchanged throughout the experiment. The maximum likelihood estimates of the two scale parameters have been derived along with their variances. A numerical example illustrates the type of data and relevant calculations for the experiment involving progressively censored samples."
"Based on the Markov model for the description of the reliability behavior of an item and on the mixed-exponential expression for the reliability analysis, a new reliability function is defined. By introducing pseudointervals, states are defined corresponding to pseudointervals for a set of time-interval failure data. For a given number of pseudointervals with fixed boundaries, the number of parameters is reduced to two. An example illustrates the application of the function to the bathtub-shape hazard rate."
"A simplified model is constructed and analyzed to determine the power flow through channels of finite capacity when the supply and demand at the separate nodes are probabilistic. The supplies are generators of different sizes scattered throughout the system; their outages are treated as independent random events. Failure to meet demand is due to forced outages of generators and to inadequate transmission facilities. The model divides an interconnected power system into subsystems and tie lines. It calculates the cost of unsatisfied demand and sudden supply interruption. The difference between generation and demand in the different subsystems is correlated, and this has an effect on the interconnection and reserve requirements. A cost analysis is carried out to obtain the optimum allocation of generators in the model."
   "Provides survey results covering various questions of interest to readers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
     "This survey is intended to give an up-to-date account of the state of reliability effort in Europe. It is based on responses to a questionnaire which sampled the opinions of Reliability practitioners in industry, government, research centers, and other institutions. Some 70 answers were received from Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Yugoslavia, and various European organizations. Those who responded and allowed their names to be cited are listed in the Appendix. To all responders I extend grateful appreciation· for their cooperation. The survey coverage is divided into 4 topics: 1. Fields of applications and methods for reliability analysis. 2. Organizations performing reliability work and their activities. 3. Trends and developments in reliability. 4. Reliability difficulties and possible solutions. Due to the high number of detailed answers it is impossible to reproduce all the information. No names are mentioned in connection with specific answers. On the other hand if a paper in this issue provided some significant input to this survey, it is cited."
"This is an account of some of the principal United Kingdom activities specifically concerned with the reliability of manufactured products, and with service functions. It is not a comprehensive study and it cannot be taken to represent the total U.K. picture of the subject. It is hoped, however, that a reasonably balanced view is given of the diversity of reliability interests in Britain as seen by someone who has been closely connected with the subject for several years-particularly in the field of standardisation."
"The formation of the Systems Reliability Service (SRS) is discussed against a background of historical reliability development. This background extends to nearly twenty years ago when various methods of carrying out safety assessments of nuclear plant and systems were being formulated. The early deterministic methods relying to a great extent on subjective judgement have been developed into more generalised techniques involving probabilistic concepts. Subsequently, reliability assessments were extended to cover not just safety but also availability aspects. Earlier developed theoretical foundation gave rise to reliability technology. In order to apply this technology successfully, it has been found necessary to organise under one management multi-disciplinary groups covering computation and analysis, project assessment, research and development, and a wide ranging reliability data bank. The basic operation of the data bank is discussed as well as general applications of SRS techniques. These techniques, although developed primarily for nuclear plants, have also been found useful in their applications to non-nuclear plants and to systems in general."
"In order to turn reliability prediction into a readily available tool, a system for computerized handling of failure rates was developed at FTL. This system, which is named RPP-1 (Reliability Program One) is presently covering data of electronic and electromechanical components. From a given list of components and data on stresses and working conditions, the failure rates are automatically searched, processed, and pooled in an assessment for an equipment. To make this possible, a number of decisions and judgements had to be taken regarding codes, formulas, models, bank structure, application factors, etc. This paper gives a summary of the FTL solutions for those basic questions. The system-actually a system of subprograms-has been developed at the Swedish Military Electronics Laboratory. The project was headed by the the author of this paper."
"The increasing importance of safety and availability of power plant units demands more detailed and proven reliability data for plant components than operational experience could provide till now. In the Federal Republic of Germany an extensive collection of field data from a conventional power plant has been compiled since 1972. The authors give a survey on the information system processing these field data, in order to establish empirically tested reliability data for plant components."
"Reliability, in the sense of safety and punctuality is a principal objective of railway management to keep ahead of competition. Reliability effort of European railways and the impact of modern methods for improving reliability is discussed. Further progress in this field depends on modern information systems and complex data processing. The proposed European data-processing system therefore and the already installed systems of several European railway authorities are introduced."
"A problem-independent concept for the reliability analysis of complex systems is presented. A method of system reliability analysis which is based on a selection of generally applicable mathematical models and computer programs for efficient numerical evaluation of the models emerges from this concept. A general safety model based on the same reliability analysis techniques and procedures is presented. A case study shows the application of the safety models and the methods of reliability analysis."
"Many large complex aerospace programs in Europe are carried out on an international basis, i.e., by multinational industrial consortia and based on multinational governmental support. The sophisticated program structures established for this reason create a new type of problem area which influences project performance and also extends on the reliability area. Whereas, generally, reliability is primarily directed towards overcoming technical risks by well-known engineering methods and control procedures, in multinational projects the aspect of overall risk management is becoming increasingly important and has to be adequately considered in the organizational structure. The above considerations are reflected in the reliability cooperation models of the Panavia 200 (MRCA) and the European Airbus A 300 Programs, which represent two of the largest current European multinational development programs. The experience gained through these programs can be applied to any other type of complex international development task. International cooperation in the reliability area can strongly increase the resources of technical information and know-how useable for the project. Although compromises between conflicting opinions and philosophies are unavoidable, reliability work may become more efficient overall because of more practical approaches."
"This paper surveys the field of reliability as related to marine engineering. The problems in marine systems are characterized by availability and safety. However, the two are different aspects of the same problem, and the discipline of reliability engineering provides solution tools for both. Obviously the reliability and availability of the propulsion, navigation and cargo handling are vitally important to the economic operation of ships. Equally important are safe handling of hazardous cargoes and safe navigation through restricted waters and in areas of high traffic density. Experience in dealing with marine equipment and systems has shown that the available techniques and methods of reliability engineering should be applied with care in marine engineering. Special attention should be paid to failure cause, mechanism, and mode. Some proven methods are discussed. In general, there is a lack of data on mechanical components and systems. This is particularly true for marine equipment because of its size, lack of standardization, low sample size and operational environment. A data collection program, now running successfully, is described. Particularly interesting is the conformity of observed values with the negative exponential distribution of failure for some items. The future aspects of reliability engineering in the marine industry are discussed."
"The paper introduces the concept of a cumulative stochastic process and derives the general mathematical expression of the distribution corresponding to such processes when they can be assumed to be Markovian. The behaviour of such a distribution in correspondence to accumulation functions of the type u(t) = atb and u(t) = l ln(l + t) is explored. It is shown how the exponential, Weibull, gamma, normal and lognormal distributions are particular cases of the general distribution. Next, the characteristics of the extreme values of n independent observations coming from such a general distribution are investigated. The central characteristics of the extreme values distributions are related to the hazard rate of the initial distribution. In particular, a simple method for relating the modal smallest value and the modal largest value to the sample size using the asymptotic expression of the hazard rate is given. The tail characteristics of the extreme values distributions are investigated numerically or analytically. The mathematical findings are applied to the volume effect on the failure probability of materials."
"After a brief introduction to the general concept of regenerative processes and to some applications of these processes to reliability theory, this first part of a two-part paper investigates the renewal process and, subsequently, the alternating renewal process. Both these processes are basic regenerative processes and constitute the mathematical model of a renewable item. The investigation deals carefully with those quantities and theorems which are of particular interest for reliability theory and which will be used in the second part of the paper. A brief review of the literature dealing with repairable systems containing redundancy, as well as a description of an alternative investigation method is given in an appendix."
"In order to understand better the mechanism of failure due to electromigration in thin metallic films, life tests have been carried out under constant and reversed DC current, by following the changes of specimen resistance till failure is reached. The inversion of the current is chosen at times which are a decreasing fraction of the specimen life in DC. While under DC current, the resistance of the specimen increases continuously up to failure; when the current is reversed, the resistance decreases to some extent in the first period after inversion, and then increases again, thus showing the partial reversibility of the effect. A large increase in life is observed on specimens in which the current is alternatingly inverted. A model of electromigration damage due mainly to vacancy condensation is presented, in which the behavior of resistance change is derived from the kinetics of void formation. This model is in very good agreement with the experimental results. However, the partial reversibility of the effect corresponding to the small decrease in resistance upon current inversion, suggests that some change also occurs in the shape of the specimen due to mass transport and polarization associated with the impurities present at some internal sites, such as grain boundaries."
"The main problems in relation to automatic fault finding and diagnosis in equipments or production systems are discussed: 1) compression of the syndrome and observation spaces for better discrimination between failure modes; 2) simultaneous display of the failure patterns and the failure instants, for maintenance control and review of the reliability design; 3) automatic production of a final set of diagnosis assumptions classified according to their probabilities. 4) sequencing of the inspections in accordance with the failure rates and inspection costs."
"This paper deals primarily with the reliability of unmanned scientific or commercial satellites. In the course of reliability analysis an hierarchy of reliability predictions is generated, reaching from preliminary apportionment by subsystems: to figures of merit, usually obtained by Boolean algebra; to results based on failure modes, effects and criticality analysis (FMECA); to data from an elaborate, though still static, fault tree; and eventually to data depicting the dynamics of mission time line and contingency analyses. The outlined routine has been developed, mainly in the US, to quite some perfection, but it still leaves unanswered the customer's most natural concern: how much reliability, within what time, at what price? Therefore, an attempt is made to schedule the above work elements, so that the amount of reliability as well as its allocation become subject to the classical criterion of marginal utility. It is fully realized that there are considerations, such as design freeze partly due to long-lead items, that put a limit to this endeavor. The postulated analysis consists, in essence, of two models in sequence: first, the fault tree, which exhibits the technical failure modes, their probability of occurence, and their interdependence. Second, the mission failure model, referring to total and partial deficiences in performing utility functions, and to their interactions as regards the degree of performance."
"Consider a system with several input parameters; each input is a stochastic variable. The joint probability of all system outputs simultaneously meeting their specifications is found by a hitherto unpublished method called ``Multi-dimensional Convolution with Quantization.'' To use the method, two assumptions must be satisfied; the assumptions are milder than the two popular assumptions of linearity and statistical independence. There is one example."
"A general theory has been developed for calculating the reliability of a device which does not deteriorate with time and which is exposed to a stochastic load. Two important cases of stochastic loads have been considered: (1) statistically independent random pulses, and (2) a sequence of random pulses, each one separated from the next one by a random period of time during which no load is applied to the device. Numerical examples are included."
"The publication offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers."
  "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
 "Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
    "Six types of CRT cathode assembly are described, including the traditional cap-cylindrical shank-ceramic wafer assemblies which have been in use for many years and two of the more modern heat-shield assemblies. The range of operating temperature is no larger than 60 K for either of the heat-shield assemblies and may be as large as 295 K for the older types. Spontaneous variations in temperature of up to 97 K, downward drifts in temperature of as much as 40 K after peak temperature has been reached, and increases of up to 154 K as a result of reprocessing have been observed. These effects are generally much smaller with the heat-shield assemblies. The 60 K range of the heat-shield assemblies implies a variability of more than 4 to 1 in life and performance. The ranges of the older assemblies imply a variability of from 64 to 1 to more than 1000 to 1. The spontaneous variations in temperature are responsible for appreciable changes in the grid bias required to obtain a fixed value of beam current, or, conversely, large changes in the beam current obtained at a fixed grid bias."
"Two key indices in system reliability evaluation are the probability that the system is failed and the frequency of system failure. Other measures such as the mean cycle time and the mean down time can be easily derived from these quantities. This paper considers the reliability evaluation of a complex maintainable system using a cut set approach. The available literature on this subject generally deals with the failure probabilities. The technique proposed by Buzacott to determine the frequency of failure has the drawback that explicit formulae for system availability must be first derived. Numerical values are then obtained by further manipulation. This approach is, therefore, not suitable for computer application. The contribution of this paper is the development of a new formula for the frequency of system failure using a cut set approach, from which the numerical values can be obtained directly. This method overcomes the drawback of Buzacott's method and is suitable for computer application. Upper and lower bounds for frequency are also given and the method is illustrated by an example."
"The problem of predicting length of life (survival time) of an individual system is discussed. The predictions are based on previous test data on the types of components involved in the system. As a preliminary the classical, Bayesian, and fiducial probability approaches to prediction are outlined. The use of prediction techniques is then discussed by means of examples, with some special attention being given to the problem of predicting the life of an r-out-of-k:G system whose components have exponentially distributed lifetimes."
"During the iterative design of a system (or circuit) the designer is often faced with the problem of ranking two designs according to some criterion. If the system elements have uncertain values, each system manifestation can be evaluated as to whether or not it meets some performance criterion. The fraction which meets or exceeds the criterion is called the yield. Monte Carlo techniques can be used to simulate the population of systems and thus to estimate the ranking of two designs. The first result presented in the paper is a derivation of the probability that one design is better than another, along with confidence limits for that probability. If the two designs are topologically the same, i.e., they differ only in the nominal values and actual distributions of true parameter values, then the same set of random numbers can be used for one simulation of each design. Due to the similarity there may be a positive correlation between the 2 results which can then be used to narrow the confidence limits from the crude method mentioned above. The second result is a derivation of these narrow confidence limits."
"Replacement strategies applicable to items which fail with monotonically increasing failure rate are considered. In particular, the important characteristics of n-stage and 1-stage strategies are compared. This study, though somewhat tutorial in nature, reveals interesting properties which are useful in selecting an appropriate strategy. In general, n-stage strategy has economic advantage over the corresponding 1-stage strategy. The advantage is obtained by transferring failures from stages where failure costs are high to stages where these costs are low. In many cases, a quick examination of the system will reveal whether n-stage strategy will be advantageous or not. Subsequently, based on a detailed study an appropriate n-stage strategy can be designed. The more stages the greater would be the economy, up to where practical considerations and increasing transfer costs will limit the number of stages."
"A new approach determines the reliability function for systems with constant transition rates and with standby and repair, using the stochastic transition signal-flow graph. All the state probabilities of the system need not be found; instead the source-to-sink transmission is calculated. A model in the form of a stochastic transition signal-flow-graph is developed for these systems. Many results reported in the literature can be obtained from the model."
"The reliability function is calculated for components and systems which are subjected to stresses arriving randomly in time at a given average rate. The component is assumed to exist in a finite number of states, each of which is affected differently by the applied stress. During normal operation, failure rates are assigned to each of the states of the component; when the stress is applied, the failure rates for each state change to a new value. By defining the transitions among the states as a first order Markov process, the average probability of no failure prior to and including time t is calculated for the cases where the sets of failure rates are either discrete or continuous. The solution for the average probability is given as a matrix equation and several methods for reducing the equation to a useable form are examined. In addition, the theory of failure and repair processes is reviewed and methods for simplifying the calculation of the reliability of a system are presented."
"A brief overview of the structural reliability problem and its relationship to probabilistic and statistical concepts is given. Selected references on structural reliability are compiled from various sources. References address structural reliability and selected topics associated with implementing the structural reliability approach."
 "The system and its components have only two states: complete success or complete failure. The components' states are random variables and the system's state depends deterministically on the states of its elements. This paper assumes the state of the system is unknown and presents a sequential testing procedure of the components in order to determine the system's state. The procedure minimizes the expected number of necessary tests for a wide class of systems. The procedure is needed when the system is entirely or partially consumed upon its use, e.g., the firing of a missile, and one wishes to know the system's state without actually operating the system."
"The results of a large-scale production thermal-cycle screen at the system-level and the failure distribution at the piece-part level and at the failure-mechanism level of integrated circuits are given. The effectiveness of the thermal-cycle screen is discussed at both the system and integrated-circuit level. Failure rates for integrated-circuit failure mechanisms are compared for the thermal-cycle screen and field experience."
"This note considers a system which is subject to both partial and catastrophic failures. A Markov process, continuous in time and with three discrete states is used to demonstrate the effect of the throw-away maintenance philosophy on reliability."
"A failure model with degradation and catastrophic modes is briefly discussed and some general equations are shown."
"The distribution of time to failure for a system consisting of two dissimilar, redundant, repairable units is discussed. The system fails if it stays inoperable for more than a fixed time interval, measured from the instant at which both units broke down. The Laplace transform of time to system failure, and the explicit formula for the mean time to system failure in the special case are derived."
  "The system has two classes of components. Each component in one of the classes is essential to operation. Components in the other class are helpful but not essential. The Laplace transforms of various state probabilities have been obtained; a particular case has been derived."
"The concept of Equivalent time is introduced to find the hazard rates of elements in a parallel redundant systems which is subject to dependent failures. True acceleration is defined as an adjunct to this concept."
"Provides survey results covering various questions of interest to readers."
 "Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
    "The operational Availability and Reliability (OAR) model is designed to evaluate the availability and reliability of systems with components in any combination of series, parallel, and r-out-of-n:G combinations. In terms of the OAR model, systems are composed of Optimal Replaceable Units (ORUs). Failure, corrective maintenance, and spare acquisition probabilities are calculated via random sampling of the ORU failure, corrective maintenance, and spare acquisition distributions. ORU failures are statistically independent and, to allow for versatility in describing system characteristics, ``3-parameter Weibull'' distributed. System availability and reliability are then computed by employing the system failure, corrective maintenance, and spare acquisition data."
"A method is derived for obtaining either randomized or nonrandomized lower confidence bounds on the reliability of independent series or parallel systems when subsystem data are binomially distributed. Both types of confidence bounds agree with published values of optimum confidence bounds to within about a unit in the second significant figure. In using the method derived for obtaining nonrandomized confidence bounds there is no difficulty with the number of subsystems in the system or of a requirement of equal sample sizes, as with the standard method of obtaining the optimum bounds. Existence of subsystems for which no failures are observed also presents no difficulty, in contrast to the maximum-likelihood and likelihood-ratio approximations. Numerical comparisons are made between optimum confidence bounds and those based on other approximating methods."
 "Standby redundancy is the oldest form of redundancy using switches. After a failure of the working element, an identical spare is substituted by switching. Unfortunately, the Coverage (the probability of a successful reconfiguration) of the system is always less than unity and, furthermore, the spare element might fail before it is switched in. Using, certain assumptions, this paper provides simple formulae for the reliability of a standby system. Criteria for the Coverage and the best number of standby elements are presented. Simple expressions for a Mission Time Improvement Factor are derived. A general discussion of standby redundancy is given to place the assumptions in proper perspective."
"Bayesian analysis of a 2-parameter gamma distribution model in a life testing context is considered with special emphasis on estimation of the reliability function; estimation of the scale parameter involved is implicit. The discussion is limited to a simple random sampling scheme."
 "A method using graph theory is proposed for the detection and the location of a multiunit fault in a system. The method requires only a slight increase in the number of internal monitoring terminals over the number required for the 1-unit fault diagnosis. A graph representation of a system initially leads to a rectangular diagnostic matrix. An algorithm is developed for constructing a square reachability matrix from the diagnostic matrix. A graph derived from the reachability matrix permits diagnosis of multiunit faults."
"This report is concerned with the reliability of human detection of certain classes of signals of simple shape embedded in low-pass filtered white gaussian noise recorded on paper. Results are compared with performance of an optimum matched filter detector which operated on the same set of data. The signal-to-noise ratio obtained at the output of such a filter can be used to predict the reliability of detection and the false alarm rate in subjects' performance. For signal-to-noise ratio greater than one, subjects make fewer errors (i.e., misses plus false alarms) than the optimum filter, and the difference is a monotonically decreasing function of the signal-to-noise ratio. Factors concerned with these two observations are discussed."
"Four methods are discussed for determining the smoothing parameters in an adaptive exponential smoothing model which is used to assess reliability of a complex system tested in stages. The adaptive model is defined as R<sub>I</sub> = &#x003B1;<sub>I</sub>r<sub>I</sub> + (1 - &#x003B1;<sub>I</sub>)R<sub>i-1</sub>, i = 2,...k, where R<sub.i-1</sub. is the assessed reliability at stage (i -1), ri is the ratio of the number of successes to the number of trials at stage i. Among the four procedures given here for determining the smoothing parameters &#x003B1;<sub>I</sub> two empirical methods and an empirical Bayes procedure are considered in some detail including a numerical example in which these techniques are compared."
"This paper deals with the simultaneous estimation of the location parameter μ and the scale parameter σ of the Weibull distribution when both are unknown and the shape parameter γ is known. The best linear unbiased estimate (BLUE) (μ, σ) based on a subset of k optimum ordered observations selected from the whole sample is compared with 1) Ogawa's asymptotically best linear estimate (ABLE) (μ*, σ*) based on k ordered observations whose ranks are approximated by an asymptotic optimum selection, and 2) the BLUE based on the ranks in 1). Tables facilitating the computation of (μ, σ) based on k = 3, 4 optimum ordered observations are provided."
 "The publication offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers."
"Provides survey results covering various questions of interest to readers."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
   "This article briefly reviews graphical, maximum likelihood, and linear estimation methods for analyzing censored life data to estimate relationships between stress and product life. Each method is illustrated by an example dealing with accelerated life test data on motor insulation. The advantages and disadvantages of the methods are compared to guide the choice of a method for a given application."
"This paper considers the reliability analysis of chain structures of identical sections. The sections are distributed in the sense that there is more than one input and output node to each section. System failure occurs if no path exists between system input and output. (System branch failures are by open circuit only.) This model is particularly applicable to redundant communication systems. It is shown that the distributed chain structure is asymptotically equivalent to a series structure of identical equivalent sections, assuming that the number of sections is large and that the branch reliabilities are equal. The reliability of the equivalent section is obtained as the subdominant eigenvalue of a transition matrix. The error in this representation is negligible for system branch reliabilities large."
"We evaluate and analyze a model of a 2-unit standby system with repair and imperfect switching. The model determines the cumulative probability that system failure occurs in a time interval 0 to T. In order to cope with arbitrary failure-time and repair-time distributions, a ``step by step'' method is used which for practical purposes yields a sufficiently accurate result. The model results in explicit expressions which are very suitable for computer implementation. A simple illustrative example is given."
"This paper is concerned with a 1-unit system with 3 types of states: usual, wearout, and failure; the hazard rate is constant in the usual state and is monotonically increasing and unbounded in the wearout state. In order to deal with this system in detail, we introduce two models: model 1 in which the period of normal operation is fixed and model 2 in which it is a random variable with a negative exponential distribution function. The models have different preventive replacement policies based on both age and state. Moreover we give the conditions under which these policies are effective."
"The optimal design of system reliability which takes into account the quantitative aspect of systems throughput or capacity is proposed. It is based on the concept of an r-out-of-n configuration instead of the conventional parallel 1-out-of-n configuration and is especially suitable for treating problems which arise in process systems. The problem is solved by the pseudo-Boolean programming method of Lawler and Bell."
"The unpowered to powered failure rate ratio (λ'/λ) is a key system reliability design parameter. An initial assumption of this ratio can greatly influence a system design. Furthermore, some system configurations, e.g., parallel system, are much more sensitive to this ratio than other configurations, e.g., TMR/Spares system. However, regardless of which standby redundancy technique is considered, the system reliability dependence on this key parameter increases as the number of standby spares increases. Currently available published statistical data on λ and λ' are not consistent enough to be a useful design aid for system designers. Thus, an effort needs to be made to correlate these data and/or obtain additional, better defined and substantiated data."
"A redundant configuration consisting of m identical elements and r universal spare elements is postulated. Each of the spares in this ``r-on-m'' configuration can substitute for any one of the m elements required for the system to be operational. The system reliability attainable with this configuration is examined as a function of r and m, simple bounds are derived, and a method is presented for determining the optimum values for r and m as a function of the relative complexity of the associated switch. It is shown that an r-on-m configuration can provide an extremely efficient means for obtaining significant improvement in reliability, and is often nearly as effective as a parallel configuration involving m times as many spares."
"The implementation of list processing techniques for the evaluation of the reliability of large systems represented by fault trees is described. Using advanced methods from tree theory, an endorder traversal of the oriented input tree is rapidly pruned by identifying known patterns and replacing corresponding branches by leaves. A computer code has been written to demonstrate these techniques."
"Fault trees are a powerful technique for describing system reliability and safety. Their synthesis is a vital design function and their analysis gives a quantitative interpretation of failure consequences. This set of papers1 gives three different ideas about the state of the art of fault trees."
"The mean time-to-system-failure is derived for a system with 4-identical components, each of which has a constant failure rate and unspecified repair rate."
"Bounds are given for moments of the time to failure of systems composed of independent components. Improved bounds on the mean and on the reliability for series and parallel systems are obtained for systems composed of independent components with increasing hazard rate and increasing hazard rate average."
       "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides survey results covering various questions of interest to readers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Large Radio Coverage Area Systems   Coverage Layout of Small Cell Systems   Base Station Assignment in Small Cell Systems   Channel Assignment in Small Cell Systems    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"The prelims comprise:   Half Title   Photographs   Title   IEEE Press Board Page   Copyright   Contents   preface to the IEEE Edition   preface to the first Edition   foreword   introduction   ]]>"
      "This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Spatial Distribution of the Field   Power Spectra of the Fading Signal   Power Spectrum and Other Properties of the Signal Envelope   Random Frequency Modulation   Coherence Bandwidth   Spatial Correlations at the Base Station   Laboratory Simulation of Multipath Interference    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Factors Affecting Transmission   Observed Attenuation on Mobile Radio Paths over Smooth Terrain   Effects of Irregular Terrain   Statistical Distribution of the Local Mean Signal   Prediction of Field Strength    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Mobile Antennas   Base Station Antennas   Polarization Effects    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Frequency Modulation   Digital Modulation   Channel Multiplexing   Man-Made Noise    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Basic Diversity Classifications   Combining Methods   Antenna Arrays for Space Diversity   Effect of Diversityon FM Noise and Interference   Diversity Against Shadowing    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"This chapter contains sections titled:   Synopsis of Chapter    This chapter contains sections titled:   Postdetection Diversity   Switched Diversity   Coherent Combining Using Carrier Recovery   Coherent Combining Using a Separate Pilot   Retransmission Diversity   Multicarrier AM Diversity   Digital Modulation-Diversity Systems   Comparison of Diversity Systems    This chapter contains sections titled:   References   ]]>"
"Our intention has been to offer an appreciation of VSAM performance sensitivities and to relate those sensitivities to data set design parameters. This has been done in the hope that designers may become more aware of the effects of their choices among those parameters. This discussion has been restricted to VSAM as it applies to IBM operating systems. Effects of paging, the VSAM catalogue, and VSAM multirequest strings — which may be important in some cases — have not been included."
"One of the major concerns of users of virtual storage systems has also been a major objective of system designers, that is, ease of moving programs for OS/MFT systems to OS/VS1 systems. Discussed in this article have been supervisor and job scheduling operations that make such a move possible, whereby programs remain wholly or largely intact. The major innovation of virtual storage systems is that of dynamic relocation. Effects of dynamic job relocation on the supervisor and the job scheduler have been discussed."
"In conclusion, three areas of concern that continue to be brought up repeatedly with respect to system integrity support are now addressed. These questions concern thiem pact of integrity support on the system as a whole, the feasibility of integrity on other systems, and the questionos f what level of integrity has been achieved in vs2 Release 2 and what in fact constitutes an adequate level of system integrity."
"In this paper, the facilities of the job entry subsystem of OS/VS1 have been described briefly. The comparison between OS/MFT job management and oslvsl job management identified several areas where performance could be improved and described the approaches taken by JES1 for such improvement. The input to the subsystem, primarily through system generation parameters, was considered. Compatibility with OS/MFT and the flexibility provided by the JESl reconfiguration facility were teh main points of this discussion. In a brief analysis of the JES1 to perform efficiently in a virtual storage environment were illustrated. Thus, it was shown how JES1 extended OS/MFT job management by providing additional functions and improving performance in the virtual storage environment."
  "One of the os/vs2 Release 2 design objectives is to provide each installation with control over the responsiveness and turnaround times of its batch jobs and TSO commands, without requiring installation personnel to write their own scheduling algorithm. Installation personnel specify their response and turnaround objectives in terms of the rates at which processing resources are to be provided to individual jobs and commands. The system resources manager uses swapping to dynamically adjust the execution mix in order to achieve two distinct, but potentially conflicting, performance objectives. The first objective is service — to distribute processing resources among the batch jobs and TSO commands, according to installation specifications. The second performance objective is throughput - to optimize the use of CPU main storage and I/O resources, given the service objectives."
"Experience with the algorithm to date indicates it to be a worthwhile step toward optimization for a virtual storage environment. The algorithm is clearly not the ultimate solution to program packing, yet it does provide an automated and effective means to this end. As such, it has proved useful and far preferable to manual or intuitive techniques for program placement."
"The enhancement of research and development, product test, and process control by computer assisted data capture, analysis, storage, and display have been well demonstrated. Experience in laboratory automation at the IBM Research Center at Yorktown indicates that more users can take advantageo f enhanced instrumentation and analytic capabilities as computing power continues to become more economical. A hierarchy of computer elements offers an opportunity to provide these resourcesw ith a degree of compatibility that minimizes the support required."
"We have selected and presented aspects of probability theory and have emphasized their applications to computer system design and analysis, Some general references for further reading on probability theory are given in the brief bibliographic section that follows."
       "We have observed programmers at work using existing interactive systems in an IBM research environment. Our observation of the use of language processors indicates that users of TSS/360 seldom need the interactive error-correction features of the language processor. Also, when a user might use such features, he seldom does. By implication, these observations also point to the importance of implementing SIPE-type data collection systems. We have presented our observations of the relationship between system response time (SRT) and user response time (URT). The results indicate that a long SRT is related to a long URT. This suggests that ways be sought to reduce the undesirable effects of a long SRT and to reduce the SRT-URT interaction without adding to the cost or complexity of the system."
"Functional simulation of direct-access storage devices allows for testing and experimenting with a current or new direct-access device without it being available or attached to the system. In particular, the MVE mode of DSIM allows the simulation of devices under any operating system. The techniques provided are data-driven, thus allowing the simulation of devices with differing characteristics. T he interactive options enable the user to create or check for errors and thus provide for testing of the various error routines associated with the device. This capability is not generally attainable even with the real device. By extending the measurement routines, other device performance statistics may also be obtained. DSIM does not impair the security of the data within the system on which it is being used since it will not access any existing data within the system. DSIM is useful as an experimental intervirtual machine communication mechanism."
"This paper has described hardware extensions to System/370 to provide multiprocessing. While the emphasis is upon tightly-coupled implementation through MP hardware and o s l v s 2 Release 2, the characteristics of loosely-coupled systems have been sketched out for contrasTt.h e comparison of IBM multiprocessors has been included to provide a rationale for thee volution of System/370 multiprocessing architecture with significant differences from and improvements upon prior System/360 implementation."
"Programming support of tightly-coupled multiprocessing hardware has been discussed, particularly the OS/VS2 Release 2 components: locking, service management, CPU affinity, dispatching, and alternate CPU recovery. These facilities improve the control program utilization of the two-cpu environment in that it can now run parallel disable functions. Alsos, pin time on locks is reduced, and the new dispatchable unit allows more parallelism in new system functions. Furthermore, the system is able to recover from the loss of one of the two CPUS."
  "Analytical techniques applied throughout the development cycle can contribute significantly to the development of a successful ~ computer system. In this paper, we have tried to illustrate the value of doing the appropriate level of performance evaluation at each stage of a development cycle. The particular types of techniques used depend on the level of complexity and performance considerations associated with a particular project. A simple pencil and paper approach with observations of program execution may suffice for a small project. On a large system development project where the performancoef more complex computers and other resources are critical, more extensive techniques are usually required. Here it may be necessary to judge the adequacy of system design, details of software design, and computer configurations in the expected total system environment. The analyst, using the techniques of digital simulation models and computer system monitors, can take this perspective. This was the course followed in the development of the Skylab Terminal System described in this paper."
"The HIPO Hierarchy chart is being used as an aid during general systems design. The considerations and techniques presented here are useful for evaluating alternatives for thos portions of the system that will be programmed on a computer. The charting technique used here depicts more details about the interfaces than the HIPO Hierarchy chart. This facilitates consideration during general program design of each individual connection and its associated passed parameters. The resulting design can be documented with the HIPO charts. (if the designer decides to have more than one function in any module, the structure chart should show them in the same block. However, the HIPO Hierarchy chart would still show all the functions in separate blocks.) The output of the general program design is the input for the detailed module design. The HIPO input-process-output chart is useful for describing and designing each module."
"SDLC is a data link control for serial-by-bit synchronous transmission between buffered stations on a data transmission link. A number of functional capabilities that have not heretofore been encompassed by any single data link control are provided along with improvements in many of the intanginble characteristics."
"We have described a simple model of a computing system with a storage hierarcy, based on the view that such a system can be represented by a cyclic queuing model. Each stage in the system represents a component in the storage hierarchy with the exception of one stage that represents a combination of the central processor and main storage."
   "This issue contains a group of papers on a wide range of research and development topics in magnetic recording. These papers, rather than being the outgrowth of a single development program, report new and innovative results from the various disciplines in disk file and tape file technologies."
"Airflows between centrally clamped, rotating, rigid disks are investigated with respect to the type of flow pattern, the parameters that influence nonuniform flow, and the effects of various flow patterns on disk stability. The experimental method uses a water-flow modeling technique for the airflow. The observed flow patterns are highly unsteady. The configuration and position of the shroud and slider arm are found to be the major parameters that influence flow characteristics. A reduction of disk flutter by a factor of 12 can be achieved when the unsteady flow pattern is changed to a steady flow pattern."
"The design of the IBM 3340 Direct Access Storage Facility with IBM 3348 Data Modules incorporates new concepts and required the development of several innovative components, including newly designed magnetic read-write heads. The heads start and stop in contact with the disk and use a tri-rail, air-bearing slider having a low mass. Each data module includes read-write heads, a head carriage, disks, and a disk spindle. The rationale is discussed for the design concepts and for several components, including the data module, head and arm assembly, and the moving-coil linear actuator. A method of improving data integrity, utilizing a “disk-defect skipping” procedure, is described and its performance implications discussed."
"The engineering design of a head-positioning system for an interchangeable-medium disk file is considered. Emphasis is placed upon three specific functions within the positioning system: (1) encoding and demodulation of information from the dedicated servo surface, (2) compensation and dynamics of the track-following control system, and (3) implementation of control electronics for a quasi-time-optimal, track-accessing control system. The examples used are taken from the IBM 3340 Disk Storage Facility."
"A new approach to the analysis of wide foil bearings is investigated. The equation of motion for a finite length of tape is coupled to the transient lubrication equation for the air film between the tape and the recording head. Compressibility and slip flow are retained in the fluid mechanics equation; flexural rigidity and high-speed dynamic effects are retained in the tape equation. The steady-state solution to the coupled equations is obtained as the limiting case of the transient initial value problem. Describing the system equations relative to the undeflected tape (as opposed to conventional foil-bearing theory, which uses the head as the reference surface) permits investigation of noncircular head geometries. In addition, wave propagation effects in the tape and the interaction of waves in the tape with the air-bearing region may be studied."
"This paper describes an experiment performed to verify the one-dimensional model of elastic foil behavior developed by Stahl, White, and Deckert. In the experiment, a loop of tape one-inch wide passes over a stationary recording head, and the air-film thickness between the head and the foil is determined using white light interferometry. Measured data for various experimental conditions are compared with the predictions of the model and also with prior foil-bearing analyses. The influence of parameters such as tape thickness, head radius, tape tension, etc. on the nature of the spacing field is demonstrated."
"The design and characteristics are presented for an infrared instrument capable of measuring air-bearing separation distances over a mechanical bandwidth ranging from dc to 30 kHz. The measurement technique involves monitoring optical intensity variations of the interferometric cavity formed by two air-bearing surfaces. This intensity varies between a minimum at zero separation and a maximum at a distance equal to one-quarter of the optical wavelength. For air-bearing distances less than 1 µm, a convenient source is the 3.391 µm infrared line of the helium-neon laser. By continually monitoring a fraction of the intensity of the optical source, a real-time analog division can be performed on the spacing signals to produce an output independent of laser intensity variations. Room-temperature indium arsenide detectors were selected for their high responsivity and rapid rise time."
"The transition from boundary lubrication to fully hydrodynamic lubrication is investigated for air-lubricated slider bearings using the electrical resistance method. Intermittent contacts are shown to exist even under conditions for which the numerical solution of the Reynolds equation or white light interferometry predicts steady state spacings in the spacing region from 0.125 to 0.25 µm. The transition is similar to the one found in the presence of liquid films, being influenced for a given surface roughness of disk and slider by load, speed, and hydrodynamic design."
"The initial design of a vertical magnetoresistive head in a hand-held wand for reading magnetically encoded price tags and credit cards is discussed. The performance of the head (e.g., resolution, signal shape and amplitude, and signal-to-noise ratio) is analytically and experimentally evaluated as a function of the configuration of the sensor, head-to-medium interface, and sensor processing and materials."
"The thermal response of a magnetoresistive head is analyzed for frictional heating between the head surface and dust particles or other asperities on the recording medium surface during relative motion of head and medium. A theoretical model is presented showing that pulses are induced in the output of a magnetoresistive head as a result of this frictional heating. The model predicts the dependence of these noise spikes on the thermal properties of the substrate and cover chip for the magnetoresistive head, the dimensions of the magnetoresistive stripe, the head-medium relative velocity, and the rate of frictional heat generation. Experimental verification of the theoretical model is obtained by scanning a focused laser beam across a head."
"Numerical computations for the shielded magnetoresistive head are reported and compared with previous analytic and experimental results. Linear resolution is found to be essentially the same as for inductive heads. Output amplitude is in the range 50 to 175 V per meter track width for a sense current density of 5 × 1010 A/m2."
"Ferrite thin films have been prepared using a chemical deposition process; hematite and substituted hematite films were formed by spin coating a diluted solution of the metal nitrates on a substrate and subsequently heating the substrate in air to 300°C to crystallize the film. Magnetic ferrite films were formed by reducing the films in a wet hydrogen atmosphere. Process parameters, which have evolved from studies on spin coating and reduction on 7.62- and 35.56-cm substrates, have been determined that result in desirable magnetic properties. Experimental studies of film composition and morphology are reported. It has been determined both theoretically and experimentally that film thickness near 0.125 µm is optimum for high-density recording with heads with gap lengths of approximately 1 µm spaced about 0.5 µm from the film. A TiO2 undercoat (0.125 µm) on the Al-Mg alloy substrate was prepared by chemical vapor deposition and resulted in improved magnetic properties. Magnetic properties of the films and magnetic recording performance of disks using Ti and Al substrates with the TiO2 undercoat are reported."
"Measurements are reported on the in-plane and the perpendicular components of the remanence a tape acquires on passing through the steady field of a recording head. The tape coatings were oriented and unoriented particles of γ-Fe2O3, oriented CrO2 and unoriented Co-substituted γ-Fe2O3. The two writing heads used had 10 µm- and 2.25 µm-gaps, respectively. In each case the in-plane magnetization increases at first with increasing writing current, and eventually reaches a peak that is less than the maximum in-plane remanence produced on the same sample by an electromagnet. For higher values of writing current, in-plane magnetization in the tape actually decreases. The perpendicular remanence is not large enough to explain the difference between the in-plane remanence acquired from the head and the remanence acquired in a magnet. The perpendicular component of the field from the writing head is shown to have two adverse effects on the remanence of the tape. First, it produces a perpendicular magnetization that ranges from 2 percent to 15 percent of the in-plane component. Second, it causes a reduction in the in-plane component to occur near the surface of the tape closest to the writing head. The reduction can be as large as 15 percent of the maximum in-plane remanence and will obviously have an adverse effect on recording performance, particularly at high densities."
"Measurements were made of recording medium noise in erased disks using an in-contact magnetoresistive element and an inductive head supported on an air bearing slider. Four types of coatings on aluminum disks were examined: thin, transition-metal alloy film, CrO2, FeCo particle, and γ-Fe2O3. Results obtained by means of three measurement techniques are in qualitative agreement and indicate that: (1) dc-erased noise of alloy film disks is 14 to 20 dB lower than that of particulate disks measured; (2) dc-erased noise of particulate disks measured is 6 to 16 dB above their bulk-erased noise; (3) although dc noise of particulate disks increases with write current, dc noise of alloy film disks is independent of write current; (4) the shapes of the noise spectra are similar in dc-erased particulate γ-Fe2O3 disks and FeCo particle coated disks; and (5) significant modulation noise is detected on particulate disks but not on alloy film disks. The observed dc-erased noise spectrum is compared with the model for small particle noise and is then used to estimate the size of particle agglomerates or voids."
"Comparative measurements are reported on the switching speeds of three different magnetic tape materials, as determined by application of short field pulses of well-defined duration and magnitude. A sensitive measure of the change in magnetization is the length of applied pulse required for the peak readback signal to drop from 60 percent to 40 percent of its peak value. This pulse length was 2.6 ns for a γ-Fe2O3 tape, 4.1 ns for a CrO2 tape, and 1.4 ns for a cobalt-substituted γ-Fe2O3 tape."
"IBM's 6250 bpi 3420 series tape units require a powerful error-correcting code for the standard 9-track format. The optimal rectangular code (ORC), presented here, is designed to correct any single-track error or, given erasure pointers, any double-track error in the tape. The code achieves this by conforming to a rectangular codeword of which two orthogonal sides are check bits. The code is specially tailored from a general class of b-adjacent codes. The ORC can be implemented without a buffer for encoding and offers a simple error-correction mechanism. The code can be generalized to multiple-channel applications."
"Reprints of the papers listed here can usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FED, Field Engineering Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; GPD, General Products Division; GSD, General Systems Division; OPD, Office Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division; SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
    "The maximization of expected reward is considered for an Mp/M/s queuing system with unlimited queue capacity. The system is controlled by dynamically changing the price charged for the facility's service in order to discourage or encourage the arrival of customers. For the finite queue capacity problem, it has been shown that all optimal policies possess a certain monotonicity property, namely, that the optimal price to advertise is a non-decreasing function of the number of customers in the system. The main result presented here is that for the unlimited capacity problem, there exist optimal stationary policies at least one of which is monotone. Also, an algorithm is presented, with numerical results, which will produce an ε-optimal policy for any ε >; 0, and an optimal policy if a simple condition is satisfied."
"A model of a multiprocessing, multiprogramming computer system with serially reusable programs was developed to study the effect of serial programs on system performance. Two strategies for implementing serially reusable programs were investigated, a wait strategy in which the processor waits until the serial program is available, and a switch strategy, in which the processor is freed to do other work. Relative performances and asymptotic conditions as functions of the number of processors, processes, serially reusable programs, and the fraction of time each process executes serially reusable programs were obtained. Quantitative results are presented showing that the switch strategy is superior. The wait strategy causes quick saturation when the number of processes is increased."
"Capacity demands for computer memory are increasing. A multilevel storage system provides an economically feasible solution without seriously affecting the total response time. An M-level storage system is considered in this paper. The capability of a digital computer with a multilevel storage system is best enhanced in a multiprogramming environment. In a high level storage system, determination of a best task switching policy becomes an important consideration. In this paper a queuing network is introduced to describe distribution and flow of tasks in the system. An optimal switching policy is determined in relation to the system's overhead time. It is shown that in heavily CPU-limited cases the determination becomes a very simple one; namely, the best policy is given as the threshold level at which the accumulation of the average access time exceeds the overhead time."
"The applicability of stack processing for evaluation of storage hierarchies has been limited to two-level systems and to a very special group of multilevel hierarchies. A generalization of stack processing, called joint stack processing, is introduced. This technique makes possible the efficient determination of hit ratios for a class of multilevel hierarchies—staging hierarchies. These hierarchies are rather realistic in the sense that they allow for multiple block sizes and multiple copies of data in the hierarchy. Properties of storage management schemes that lend themselves to joint stack processing are studied, and the notion of distributed hierarchy management is described and illustrated."
"A method is developed for partitioning a computer logic design into subsets by combining a constructive method, used for the initial partition, with iterative improvement techniques. These iterative techniques are implemented in an interactive computing environment, which further enhances their efficiency and usefulness. An overview of the system is presented, several algorithms discussed and experimental results given."
"This paper describes various microcoded designs for modem transmitters. The digital echo modulation technique, originally introduced by J-M. Pierret, is applied to cover the case of a fully digital universal modem. The capabilities of several microcoded modem designs are presented and their limitations are discussed."
"Monte Carlo simulation procedure is developed for kilovolt electron beam scattering and energy loss in targets consisting of thin films on thick substrates. Such calculations have direct application to the nondestructive quantitative chemical analysis of ultra-thin films in the electron microprobe (an electron probe x-ray microanalyzer), utilizing characteristic x-ray fluorescence. Angular elastic scattering is calculated in the electron trajectory simulation with the screened Rutherford expression for cross section, and energy loss between elastic scattering events is calculated with the continuous-slowing-down approximation of Bethe. The contribution to x-ray fluorescence from the film due to backscattered electrons from the substrate is accounted for. For elemental films, the Monte Carlo simulation predicts intensity ratios ki, for characteristic x-rays from the film, referenced to standards of thick elemental samples. No film standards are required, and the mass thickness of any elemental film on any substrate can be determined from theoretical calibration curves. The model has been verified by measurements on films of Si, Cu, and Au on Al2O3 over wide ranges in E0, and t. For alloy films, calibration curves are generated and graphically iterated to provide independent analysis of weight fractions Ci and total mass thickness ρt. Films of MnxBiy and CoxPty were successfully analyzed with ρt ≤ 100 µg/cm2."
"A one-dimensional analysis of drop formation in a liquid jet is developed under the assumption that the axial velocity of the axisymmetric, nonviscous liquid jet remains independent of the radial coordinate. The resulting equations are used for both linear and nonlinear analyses. In the linear form, this model provides a stream stability relation comparable to that of Rayleigh; transient solutions are obtained for given initial conditions of an infinite stream. For the nonlinear equations, numerical simulation was done to study the satellite drop formation; with the present model, the satellite drop is always formed."
"A bulk queue model was developed for analyzing a multiprogrammed computer system. It can be used in conjunction with closed queuing models to study message queuing in a teleprocessing system. The model is based on an imbedded Markov chain analysis."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FED, Field Engineering Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; GPD, General Products Division; CSD, General Systems Division; OPD, Office Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division; SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
   "Effective interatomic potentials for impurities in aluminum have been constructed according to pseudopotential theory. Based on a local model potential, impurity valence and size factors are defined and their effects on the potential discussed. With these potentials, detailed calculations based on a Green's function lattice statics method are made for the impurity-vacancy binding energy and the difference in diffusion activation energies for an impurity and a host atom. Within the range of valence and size factors studied, it is found that the binding energy is generally small and depends primarily on the valence rather than the size, whereas the migration energy shows larger increases with both valence and size factors. Contributions from the lattice relaxation energies are important, particularly for impurity migration. The results can account satisfactorily for the experimental data of nontransition-metal impurities, but less so for the noble-metal impurities. Dielectric screening of the ion by the conduction electrons is important in determining the potential and must be properly accounted for in calculations of the energetics for impurities."
"The steady, forced-wave solution is obtained for loads that travel with constant speed on a simply supported circular shell, the motion of which is damped externally by air. Critical speeds are identified above which the waveform, which is a standing wave in moving coordinates, exhibits shorter wavelengths in front of the load than behind it. At supercritical speeds the solution becomes unbounded, because of loss of stability, in the limit of no damping."
"A model of the design process for computer logic is used to estimate the number of bits of memory required to replace a so-called “random logic” circuit. The model can also be used to compare the respective time delays of array logic and random logic."
"This paper structures algorithms for the translation of set theoretic queries into procedures for the search of arbitrary complex networks constructed on a data base using three basic types of strings. A method for parameterization of queries which is appropriate for accessing string structures is outlined and it is shown how the properties of string structures can be used to construct an algorithm for finding a search path with minimum path cardinality for a given query addressed to such a network. (The term data management system is used instead of data base management system.)"
"This paper is an analysis of program address trace data in a demand-paged computer system with a three-level staging hierarchy. Our primary objective is to explore the data both graphically and numerically, using methods that may be useful when other data traces become available. In addition, plausible point-process type models are fit to the data. Such an approach, combining data-analytic procedures with probability modeling, should prove useful in understanding program behavior and thus will aid in the rational design of complex computer systems."
"A detailed numerical analysis of charge-coupled-device (CCD) charge transfer is described and discussed. The analysis is based on solving the transport equation with a time-dependent surface field calculated from the actual device configuration. Devices with different oxide thicknesses and devices with electrode gaps are examined. The total field is found to play an important role in charge transfer for all cases studied. The effective channel length is modulated by the net field present and is a function of time and electrode configuration. The transfer is found fastest and the effective channel length shortest when the charge is transferred from a region of low oxide capacitance into a region of high oxide capacitance. A low-capacitance electrode gap slows the charge transfer process."
"MINI is a heuristic logic minimization technique for many-variable problems. It accepts as input a Boolean logic specification expressed as an input-output table, thus avoiding a long list of minterms. It seeks a minimal implicant solution, without generating all prime implicants, which can be converted to prime implicants if desired. New and effective subprocesses, such as expanding, reshaping, and removing redundancy from cubes, are iterated until there is no further reduction in the solution. The process is general in that it can minimize both conventional logic and logic functions of multi-valued variables."
"This article describes simple methods of generating many-variable test-case problems for heuristic logic minimization studies. Covering problems and coloring problems are converted into Boolean functions that are useful test cases for minimization."
 "Reprints of the papers listed here can usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FED, Field Engineering Division: FSD, Federal Systems Division: GPD General Products Division; GSD, General Systems Division; OPD, Office Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division: SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
   "A scanning internal photoemission (SIP) technique is used to obtain a high resolution map or image of the potential energy barrier at an insulator interface. The image is produced by displaying the internal photocurrent produced by a monochromatic beam of light scanned across the sample. A special technique was developed for focusing the light to a spot less than one micrometer in diameter. Photoemission images of a Si-SiO2 interface “stained” with a fractional monolayer of sodium are presented along with photoemission and reflectively images of a Nb2O5-Bi interface. These SIP images show inhomogeneities related to structural variations, impurities, and defects at the interface that previously were inaccessible to observation."
"Calculations are performed to determine the stable radius of a cylindrically symmetric domain nucleated in magneto-optical films during thermomagnetic writing with a laser beam. A critical bound on domain size is calculated which determines whether or not a domain of given radius, once nucleated, will be stable. The analysis shows that for a ferromagnetic material such as MnAlGe, the domain dimensions can grow beyond the local region of material that is heated above the Curie temperature. For ferrimagnetic thin films having a compensation point Tcomp, stability depends on the difference between ambient and compensation temperatures, ΔT = Ta − Tcomp. With ΔT ≈ 0, wall energy dominates and the critical radius can be calculated from Rc = σ/(2MHc)."
"This paper presents the results of a rather extensive study of the accuracy of the diffusion approximation technique as applied to queuing models. The motive for using the diffusion process approximation here is to develop realistic analytical models of computing systems by considering service time distributions of a general form. We first review the theory of the diffusion approximation for a single server and then develop a new and simplified treatment of a queuing network system. The accuracy of this approximation method is then considered for a wide class of distributional forms of service and interarrival times and for various queuing models. The approximate solutions and exact (or simulation) solutions are compared numerically in terms of the means and variances of queue sizes, server utilizations, the asymptotic decrements of the distributions, and the queue size distributions themselves. The accuracy of the diffusion approximation is found to be quite adequate in most cases and is considerably higher than that obtained by an exponential server model that is prevalent in computer system modeling."
"This paper describes a statistical evaluation of the performance of the swap scheduling algorithm of an interactive computer system and an investigation into foreground-background scheduling to improve system performance. Input traffic, computer service time demands, and system performance were statistically analyzed. Based on the results of these analyses performance enhancements for the system were determined and then evaluated through use of a validated simulation model."
"An mth-order recurrence problem is defined as the computation of the sequence x1, ···, xN, where xi = ƒ(ai, xi−1, ···, xi−m) and ai is some vector of parameters. This paper investigates general algorithms for solving such problems on highly parallel computers. We show that if the recurrence function ƒ has associated with it two other functions that satisfy certain composition properties, then we can construct elegant and efficient parallel algorithms that can compute all N elements of the series in time proportional to [log2N]. The class of problems having this property includes linear recurrences of all orders—both homogeneous and inhomogeneous, recurrences involving matrix or binary quantities, and various nonlinear problems involving operations such as computation with matrix inverses, exponentiation, and modulo division."
"This paper describes a communication system in which sending and receiving terminals automatically generate beams focused upon each other, which arise solely from ambient noise. The terminals are amplifying retrodirective arrays of antenna elements. Analysis and experiment are used to prove and verify the system concept. Some engineering considerations pertinent to system operation under various conditions are also analyzed and discussed."
"This paper deals with predictive coding techniques for efficient transmission or storage of two-level (black and white) digital images. Part I discusses algorithms for prediction. A predictor transforms the two-dimensional dependence in the original data into a form which can be handled by coding techniques for one-dimensional data. The implementation and performance of a fixed predictor, an adaptive predictor with finite memory, and an adaptive linear predictor are discussed. Results of experiments performed on various types of scanned images are also presented. Part II deals with techniques for encoding the prediction error pattern to achieve compression of data."
"This paper deals with predictive coding techniques for efficient transmission or storage of two-level (black and white) digital images. Part I discussed algorithms for prediction. Part II deals with coding techniques for encoding the prediction error pattern. First, we survey some schemes for encoding if the error pattern is assumed to be memoryless. Than a method is developed for encoding certain run-length distributions. Finally, some experimental results for sample documents are presented."
"Reprints of the papers listed here can usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division: FED, Field Engineering Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; GPD General Products Division; GSD, General Systems Division: OPD, Ofice Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division; SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
   "A simple model of the storage hierarchies is formulated with the assumptions that the effect of the storage management strategy is characterized by the hit ratio function. The hit ratio function and the device technology-cost function are assumed to be representable by power functions (or piece-wise power functions). The optimization of this model is a geometric programming problem. An explicit formula for the minimum hierarchy access time is derived; the capacity and technology of each storage level are determined. The optimal number of storage levels in a hierarchy is shown to be directly proportional to the logarithm of the systems capacity with the constant of proportionality dependent upon the technology and hit ratio characteristics. The optimal cost ratio of adjacent storage levels is constant, as are the ratios of the device access times and storage capacities of the adjacent levels. An illustration of the effect of overhead cost and level-dependent cost, such as the cost per “box” and cost for managing memory faults is given and several generalizations are presented."
"A theoretical study is made of simple analytical models for the point-to-point loss of telecommunication traffic caused by blocking in three-stage circuit switches. Two new models are compared with Jacobaeus' frequently used model and with some simulation results to determine regions of acceptable accuracy. The effects of random hunting and sequential hunting for routes are compared by simulation. The results apply to space-division link systems and also to some time-division switches of current interest. In the case of random hunting, the new models give improved agreement with simulation results. The overestimate of loss inherent in the Jacobaeus method, however, is found to be acceptably low when the numbers of primary and tertiary matrix switches are not small, e.g. > 10. We lack a good analytical model for the sequential hunting method, which is found to result in lower traffic loss for the switches being studied."
"This paper describes an algorithm for partitioning a graph that is in the form of a tree. The algorithm has a growth in computation time and storage requirements that is directly proportional to the number of nodes in the tree. Several applications of the algorithm are briefly described. In particular it is shown that the tree partitioning problem frequently arises in the allocation of computer information to blocks of storage. Also, a heuristic method of partitioning a general graph based on this algorithm is suggested."
"Photoresist technology is shown to have important advantages over the use of high-resolution silver halide films in dimensional metrology for integrated circuit masks. Experimental techniques are shown for the use of photoresist and chrome images in the study of image quality and uniformity and in analysis of the causes of image degradation. This method is applied to in situ lens evaluation and to the measurement of the precision of photorepeater stepping tables used in mask fabrication. In addition, the value of 0.3 µm is established as the practical limit of dimensional tolerance in the present photolithographic technology, and its significance to the advancement of the state of the art in mask manufacture is discussed."
"The details and results for a one-dimensional numerical analysis of the gaseous discharge occurring at a single intersection of an ac gas panel are reported. A particular object of the program is the determination of the electric field magnitude as a function of both position and time, taking into account the field distortion due to the space charge. The calculations are based on the Townsend avalanche mechanism but omit the dynamic role of metastable neon atoms in a Penning gas mixture. The calculated electrical properties of the panel are compared with experimental values."
"This paper presents a numerical simulation model for the operation of a gas panel discharge cell with a neon-argon mixture. The model is based on a Townsend avalanche or direct ionization mechanism and secondary emission, as well as Penning collisions or indirect ionization. Charges on the dielectric walls are included, but space-charge field distortion is neglected. Cyclic operation of the cell is studied in detail and the effects of geometric and electrical parameters (e.g., gap and pulse widths) on the operating characteristics of the cell (e.g., write, sustain and erase voltages) have been obtained. The results are in good agreement with experimental data where available."
"This paper describes the results of an investigation in proving the correctness of microprograms. The vehicle used is the S-machine, which is a very simple “paper” computer. The approach to the proof of correctness is based on formally defining the machine-instruction level and the microprogramming level of the given machine, and then showing that these “interfaces” are equivalent through the use of a concept called algebraic simulation."
"This paper shows how a Kalman filter may be applied to the problem of setting the tap gains of transversal equalizers to minimize mean-square distortion. In the presence of noise and without prior knowledge about the channel, the filter algorithm leads to faster convergence than other methods, its speed of convergence depending only on the number of taps. Theoretical results are given and computer simulation is used to corroborate the theory and to compare the algorithm with the classical steepest descent method."
"Glass-bonded ferrite recording heads are subject to appreciable thermal stress because of the difference in thermal expansion between glass and ferrite in the temperature range of the glassing cycle. A theoretical analysis reveals the complexity of stress distributions in the structure and pinpoints the critically stressed areas in which a potential fracture or a magnetic degradation of the material may occur. It is found that the stresses are sensitive not only to the thermal mismatch of the component materials but also to the structural configuration. Low stress levels can be achieved by matching expansions of the materials and by proper head design, particularly in the optimization of fillet angle and fillet height."
"Reprints of the papers listed here can usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FED, Field Engineering Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; GPD, General Products Division; GSD, General Systems Division; OPD, Office Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division; SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
   "An algorithm is presented that extracts the sequence of minimum memory capacities (MMCs) from the sequence of page references generated by a program as it is executed in a demand paging environment. The new algorithm combines the advantages of existing approaches in that the MMC's are produced in a single pass, as is the output of the MIN algorithm for a single memory size, and the MMC sequence is identical to the optimum stack distances provided by the OPT algorithm, which requires two passes. A hardware implementation is outlined as an extension to existing page management mechanisms. The resulting device could be used to produce continuously the MMC information, while the (paging) machine executes the program at essentially full speed. The paper also discusses the possible impact of the algorithm on the study of program behavior and on the development of space sharing (paging) algorithms. Finally, a proof is provided that the algorithm in fact produces an output identical to that of OPT."
"A register assignment algorithm is described that, in contrast to traditional methods, permits a high level of optimization at both local and global levels. This involves splitting local register optimization into two phases, with global assignment intervening. Because novel techniques are used in the global assignment procedure, it is described in detail. Experimental results with a prototype implementation are presented in which object code improvements on the order of 25 percent over a production optimizing compiler were obtained. No attempt was made to assess manpower costs of a final implementation nor to weight them against expected improvements in generated code."
"The use of water vapor as an oxidant in place of oxygen enables a wide range of surface concentrations to be obtained in a single-step process. The concentration of boron at the silicon surface is found not to be constant throughout the diffusion process because, at the temperature used, the oxide growth is not parabolic."
"A numerical method is used to obtain the potential distribution of a two-dimensional, inhomogeneously doped MIS array under pulse voltage operation. The effects of interface charge and of impurity doping and its locations on the surface potential profile are presented. The technique is useful for designing an appropriate surface potential profile for ion-implanted charge-coupled devices."
"Hartree's method for calculation of atomic wave functions is applied to the Schroedinger-like normal mode equation for underwater sound propagation. Rapid convergence was obtained for the twelve normal modes at five Hertz with a typical velocity profile. The normal modes are given, along with an example of the pressure field, and a means for numerical calculation of the near field modes is suggested."
"A new criterion is derived that relates the stability of two-dimensional recursive filters to the properties of its cepstrum. It provides a procedure for the decomposition of unstable recursive filters having nonzero, nonimaginary frequency response into stable recursive filters. The optimal solution of the decomposition problem is discussed, including numerical implementation and nonrecursive solutions. Several numerical examples show the potentialities and limitations of the rules for decomposition and for truncation of the operators."
"A standard mathematical model for inventory management is known as the Economic Order Quantity (EOQ) model. In this communication the EOQ model is extended to include the possibility of determining how much, if any, excess stock should be sold at the beginning of a decision period. The new model is of practical importance for situations in which a formal inventory management system is to be instituted while substantial inventories exist or when changes in demand, ordering costs, or carrying and interest charges require recomputation of the economic order quantity."
"A technique using a pulsating chemical jet has been developed for thinning and polishing large areas (750 to 1000 µm in diameter) of silicon devices. The thickness can be reduced to a few micrometers. This technique has been used to prepare bipolar and FET samples for transmission electron microscopy. Physical characterization of more than twenty devices can be achieved by one sample preparation."
"Reprints of the papers listed here can usually be obtained by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FED, Field Engineering Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; GPD, General Products Division; GSD, General Systems Division; OPD, Ofice Products Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, System Development Division; SPD, System Products Division; and WTC, World Trade Corporation. Papers are listed alphabetically by name of journal."
   "Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "Stochastic automata operating in an unknown random environment have been proposed earlier as models of learning. These automata update their action probabilities in accordance with the inputs received from the environment and can improve their own performance during operation. In this context they are referred to as learning automata. A survey of the available results in the area of learning automata has been attempted in this paper. Attention has been focused on the norms of behavior of learning automata, issues in the design of updating schemes, convergence of the action probabilities, and interaction of several automata. Utilization of learning automata in parameter optimization and hypothesis testing is discussed, and potential areas of application are suggested."
"A computer-assisted instruction (CAI) system, which has been used to teach machine-language programming, is described. This system is generative in the sense that it can generate both meaningful programming problems and their solution programs. The problems are produced by concatenating a randomly selected set of problem primitives and parameters. These primitives are represented internally as a sequence of basic machine-language programming concepts. A list of logical sub-tasks or ``flow chart'' of the solution program is then derived and presented as a guide to the student. The degree of freedom allowed each student in the coding of his program is a function of his previous performance. Similarly, as a student advances, more of the easier sub-tasks will be coded for him. Each step of the student's solution program is monitored, and he is given remedial feedback when he is incorrect. In cases where there are many alternative correct program segments, the system will simulate execution of the student's program and determine the validity of his program segment. Results of classroom use of this CAI system are also discussed."
"A series of experiments were performed to determine the effect of error signal quantization on human operator compensatory tracking performance. Single-axis, dual-axis, and cross-coupled critical tracking tasks were utilized with a variety of quantization formats. The controlled element dynamics were chosen so as to force the operator to generate varying amounts of lead equalization. The single-and dual-axis critical tasks served as sensitive indicators of display format effects, with the single-axis task yielding information concerning the operator's effective time delay while tracking. The cross-coupled task allowed measurement of the operator's attentional workload margin while using the quantized displays. The results indicate increased operator time delays and attentional workload when using the quantized display formats."
"Self-organizing probability state variable (PSV) parameter search algorithms possessing long-term memory have been formulated to cope with systems that must avoid high performance-penalty operating regions. The information gained from all previous experiments is efficiently encoded in multivariate probability distribution functions (pdf's). This long-term memory capability enables the PSV algorithms to avoid effectively future experiments in high penalty regions. The systems considered are resource-limited, and catastrophic failure may occur if parameter values lying in high penalty regions are implemented. Those cases in which the high penalty regions are not known in advance were investigated. The PSV algorithms have the capability of adaptively learning the location and hypervolume of these regions as the search proceeds. The algorithms are explicitly guided in their internal strategies as a function of the remaining system resources and the updated probability distribution functions. Clustering analysis is used both in the discovery of new operating regions and for updating the pdf's. As a by-product of this research, clustering was also investigated as a presearch scheme. It is shown that this procedure has great promise as a means of assessing the complexity of an optimization problem. Experimental results are presented to demonstrate the utility of the self-organizing PSV search algorithms."
"A fundamental problem in system modeling and theory is the characterization of the structure of an unknown nonlinear stochastic system when only input-output measurements are available. A method of classifying nonlinear stochastic systems, using pattern recognition and a pattern vector constructed from the input-output data, is proposed for ten stated classes of low-order nonlinear systems. The method is capable of extension to additional classes of nonlinear systems. Extensive experimental results are given to show that classification of an unknown nonlinear system, with respect to basic structural properties, can be and accomplished with a very high probability of correct classification. Various applications of the classification procedure are given, particularly in the areas of systems modeling, self-organizing control systems, and learning control systems."
"The feasibility of a method for the identification of a three-dimensional object from information contained in the boundary of its silhouettes is demonstrated. A silhouette is characterized by parametric representation of its boundary curve in the complex plane. After normalization and transformation, a set of Fourier descriptors is derived for every silhouette. A minimum distance classifier uses the descriptors to identify the three-dimensional object and to estimate its position and attitude with respect to a known reference coordinate system. The method was tested for identification of four aircraft representing complex and nonconvex objects. Simulation results, quantitative and statistical, are presented."
"Interdisciplinary research has developed a stochastic computer model for studying interactions between an insect population, its host food crop, and other variables. This population growth model, highly adaptable to any insect and any host crop, is technically characterized by discrete arrivals, infinite servers, and multistage continuous service-time distribution functions. Because steady state is seldom achieved in nature, this paper identifies combinations of critical starting conditions (number of insects and disparate start times for insects and host crops), and critical stages for induced survival rate reductions to minimize crop damage. Sensitivity analyses serve to identify the most promising areas for future entomological research in pest management strategies."
"The input-output structure of the United States economy is used to obtain the energy required to produce consumer commodities. Calculations are based on energy sector inverse coefficients and the average energy per dollar of sales of the energy sectors. While variations between sectors are not negligible, they are considerably less than initially anticipated."
"A new philosophy for designing detection devices, which embodies some of the better features of the classical generalized likelihood ratio test and the classical Bayes test, is presented. A feature of the new Bayes generalized likelihood ratio test is that it provides a unified procedure for utilizing parameter estimates in detector design. Its use depends on the existence of an asymptotically unbiased estimator for the unknown parameters. If such an estimator is easily implemented, then the new test should be particularly attractive."
"The number of periods which have much influence on the initial decision is vital to a real world decision maker who desires to ``validate'' the usefulness of applying a stationary known distribution model to a nonstationary partial information problem. This question can be studied by analytically or computationally studying the convergence rate of successively longer finite horizon problems with one or more extreme sets of terminal conditions. White [16], Schweitzer [10], Odoni [9], Hastings [3], and Morton [6] have contributed analytically to this question for the undiscounted Markov decision problem. Recently Boyse [1] adapted some of these results to the discrete time undiscounted Markov renewal programming problem. Here a simpler extension is given, which allows all the earlier results to be used directly, providing somewhat stronger results."
"It is demonstrated that μR/σR, where R is a random variable of the distance between the center of the figure to any part of its perimeter, is a good measure for the circularity of a digital figure."
"A new version of Blum's medial axial function (MAF) for visual patterns is presented. The new version is incorporated in the chord space analysis framework developed by the authors and has the advantage that, unlike the original version, it is defined for grey level pictures and is a much more ``robust'' definition. Computer generated examples are shown, and it is indicated how the technique is being applied by the authors in the development of a character recognition system."
"The computational-complexity approach and entropy using nominal frequencies lead to different measures to characterize patterns in finite binary sequences. These have been compared to a measure obtained on taking integral transforms of the sequences. The transforms considered in this paper are the Walsh and the discrete Legendre. Pattern characterization through integral transforms turns out to be intuitively satisfying. In particular, Walsh transform characterization appears natural for binary sequences as does the use of discrete Legendre transforms for more general (nonbinary) sequences."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents information for authors for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "A review of pattern recognition applied to medical diagnosis and consulting is presented. Papers (127-references) are evaluated with respect to a new medical system model incorporating concepts of consulting and decision making, the latter based on a Bayesean approach incorporating problem knowledge. This model introduces the consultant as an essential component of the decision system. The model is that of a system with subsystems. A subsystem contains a set of classes, and each class has a class-feature relationship. Features (defined as functions of measurements), complex features, and class-feature relationships provide for introducing a priori medical knowledge and dimensionality reduction. Special features such as significant features, rule-in or rule-out features, and time-dependent features, and special classes such as subclasses and intermediate classes are introduced. Etiology, a method of tracing from one subsystem to another subsystem, also is part of the system. With respect to this model, papers in numerous application areas are reviewed. No single paper fulfills many of the system's properties, and this may be why there are very few, if any, of the results described in these papers being used in health care delivery. Part of the paper is a complementary literature review of 127 papers on computer assisted medical diagnosis and consulting."
"Transform image data compression consists of dividing the image into a number of nonoverlapping subimage regions and quantizing and coding the transform of the data from each subimage. Karhunen-Loève, Hadamard, and Fourier transforms are most commonly used in transform image compression. This paper presents a new discrete linear transform for image compression which we use in conjunction with differential pulse-code modulation on spatially adjacent transformed subimage samples. For a set of thirty-three 64 × 64 images of eleven different categories, we compare the performancea of the discrete linear transform compression technique with the Karhunen-Loève and Hadamard transform techniques. Our measure of performance is the mean-squared error between the original image and the reconstructed image. We multiply the mean-squared error with a factor indicating the degree to which the error is spatially correlated. We find that for low compression rates, the Karhunen-Loève outperforms both the Hadamard and the discrete linear basis method. However, for high compression rates, the performance of the discrete transform method is very close to that of the Karhunen-Loève transform. The discrete linear transform method performs much better than the Hadamard transform method for all compression rates."
"A suboptimum method of linear feature selection in multiclass problem is presented. The set of features is selected in sequential manner based on an upper bound on the probability of error. The proposed method is applied to a problem of classifying Japanese vowels. Computer simulation results are presented and discussed."
"This paper describes a layer structured system suitable for pattern recognition which operates similar to the afferent nervous system of vertebrates. The ``system theory of homogeneous layers'' has been developed to describe signal transmission and signal processing between neuronal layers. Feature extraction in the sense of spatial filtering is performed by such a layered system with a few hierarchical stages. The last stage contains adaptive coupling which is adjusted by a learning process. The system has been simulated with a computer and parts of it with a coherent light arrangement. Its performance im recognizing handprinted characters (alphanumerics) is highly satisfactory and corresponds approximately to the human capability for this task."
"The advent of increased government involvement in occupational health maintenance with compensation for affected individuals is requiring new approaches to medical decision making. One aspect of this involvement will perhaps include the automatic mass diagnostic screening of medical films for the detection of a specffic abnormality with an occupational etiology. The results of two complementary approaches for performing diagnostic screening for presence and profusion of coal worker's pneumoconiosis from the routine posterior-anterior chest radiograph are presented. The first is a digital approach utilizing the measurement of image texture, while the second uses hybrid optical-digital methods involving the optical Fourier tramsform. Both approaches yielded classification results comparable to experienced radiologists."
"This paper presents a first implementation of a computer-aided design concept intended to confront issues normally faced by designers of complex engineering systems. Computer graphics play no essential role in this concept. Rather, the concept is aimed at organizing the analysis and search activities of a designer as he attempts to find values for the independent design parameters at his disposal so that specific performance goals will be met. The framework for the implementation is an interactive computer system written in PL/I, comprising a problem-independent command interpreter and a completely general problem-dependent analytical statement relating the design parameters and the performance measures. The designer can change the performance specifications (and to a limited degree the analytical problem statement itself) and can issue commands directing searches for solutions (values for the independent parameters) that satisfy, or come closest to satisfying, the requirements. If the requirements conflict and admit of no solution, he can relax them in an organized fashion. If they are slack and admit many overdesigned solutions, he can search for ways to tighten them or to balance the achievement of them. A manager can assign several designers to use computer-aided design system (CADSYS) simultaneously to work on related parts of a large problem. Changes or results by one designer are immediately felt by the others and by the manager. CADSYS thus has some of the properties of a management information system."
"An engineering approach to the solution of multicomponeint inspection and repair problems is introduced. This approach utilizes the practical fact that in realistic situations failure and wear processes in individual components are mutually independent. A stochastic model comprising a number of independent Markov chains is developed and operating and maintenance costs are expressed in terms of the failure and maintenance actions for the individual components. While this approach has the advantage that the problem size grows linearly rather than exponentially with the number of system components, it does increase the complexity of the objective function. For systems with a series structure, the objective function is concave, and concave programming techniques are employed to generate maintenance schedules. The computational experience gained from a number of practical examples, which is summarized in this paper, confirms the expectation that the feasibility of the solution is dependent primarily on the structure of the cost function rather than on the problem size (number of variables). These numerical examples illustrate the feasibility of the proposed approach."
"An important problem which frequently arises is the problem of measuring the degree to which a collection of objects has the empirical properties of its elements. Examples of this are found in the question of whether a network of switches is on or off, the degree to which a group of factories pollutes the air, and even the probability of success defined on an empirical frequency distribution. While each of these questions may be addressed with an esoteric formalism, there exists no general methodology for addressing the general problem because the properties of a set's elements are not defined on the set itself. For example, the set of all tall buildings is neither tall nor a building. Rather, it is an abstraction and has only those properties defined on such abstractions, e.g., cardinality. The purpose of the present paper is to develop a broad new formalism for addressing the noted general problem in a very general way. To begin with, the property p defined on the object x is formalized as a function p(x) = [0,1] which may be ``Boolean'' (binary valued) or ``formal'' (many valued or fuzzy). A set P may likewise have such a property to the degreep(P). Such a set is referred to as a ``property set,'' and these are partitioned into two general categories: ``property systems'' and ``collectives.'' A property system is characterized by the fact that its elements are related through the operators AND or OR."
"A major requirement for structural modeling is that the necessary data be acquired and organized into a form from which a structural model can be developed. A reachability matrix is one such form. It is very useful when the contextual relation being modeled is transitive and multilevel. A significant step in the development of a reachability matrix consists of the ordering of elements of the system in such a way that much of the data required can be computed from supplied data, using the transitivity condition. The process described for orderimg the element set suffices to define a set of subsystems and reduces the problem of developing a reachability matrix to one of developing a set of its component interconnection matrices that join these subsystems. The process described assigns much of the burden of structural modeling to the computer, leaving to the developer the tasks requiring substantive knowledge of the system being modeled."
"A procedure is described for developing an interconnection matrix that specifies a cascade connection of two known digraphs to form a digraph. The solution of this form of the interconnection problem can be applied to complete the process of description of a binary relation initiated by the process of partitioning on elements described in a companion paper [3]. It is assumed that the contextual relation being modeled is transitive. Based on this assumption, it is shown that the possibilities of interconnection can be completely prescribed in a characteristic logic equation. This equation can be used as the complete basis for development of an interconnection matrix. An example of its use is given. Much of the burden of structural modeling is assigned to the computer, leaving to the developer the tasks requiring substantive knowledge of the system being modeled."
 "Almost all of the published work on the philosophical question of the limitation of mechanical intelligence has argued in favor of one or the other of the polarities of possible positions, those of the True Believer and the Infidel. It is, however, possible to take a position between these two extremes, a position we call Agnostic. We believe agnosticism concerning the possibility of artificial intelligence to be a position held by many computer scientists. In general, the True Believer maintains that \"thinking\" machines are \"just around the corner,\" while the Infidel maintains that, for one reason or another, such machines are impossible. The Agnostic is willing to accept the mechanist thesis, but he feels that the relevant question for artificial intelligence research is whether it is possible to design an intelligent machine. Much of the argument between the Agnostic and the True Believer hinges on the complexity of the system to be simulated. The latter holds that man \"as a behaving system\" cannot be so complex as to be practically beyond design. The Agnostic holds that the mind may be \"simply\" a machine, but it is not a simple machine. Furthermore, there is the problem of the complexity of the procedure required to unravel the structure of a system. Even if there is agreement on the internal complexity of the mind, the question as to the complexity of the diagnostic procedure required to identify its structure remains open. Our agnosticism is one of belief, not of action."
"The term ``tacit knowing'' has been much used to denote certain aspects of human knowledge that are only partly verbalizable. The claim which it presupposes, that ``we know more than we can tell,'' has sometimes been taken to imply that mechanistic approaches to the understanding or simulation of human thought are in principle foredoomed to failure. This correspondence argues that a general-purpose goal-pursuing information system, equipped to represent the structure of its world in terms of conditional constraints on action and the planning of action, would automatically show signs of ``tacit knowledge.'' Examples are cited ofmechanistic principles (including the use of interactive elements that combine digital and analog information processing) which would lend themselves to the operation of such a system and would be able to handle information unverbalizable by the system itself. It is suggested that programs seeking to simulate only introspectively verbalizable thinking are methodologically inadequate to represent the full range of human intelligence."
"This correspondence addresses itself to the question of why computers have had so little practical success in taking over information processing tasks traditionally performed by people. This question is examined in different fields of psychology, education, and linguistics. The major reason why computers have not made more progress is that twe have not had a satisfactory psychological theory of cognitive organization. Some suggestions are made as to how we might converge on a general theory of cognitive organization."
"The concept of ``equivalence,'' as it relates to comparing man and automaton, is explored and the notions of response equivalence and process equivalecne are contrasted. Some areas of psychological research are reviewed from the perspective of whether or not they concentrate on response or process identification. Finally, some questions concerning the description of biological automata are raised."
"Artificial intelligence functions in terms of abstract symbols and human intelligence functions in terms of paradigmatic symbols. A paradigmatic symbol is a particular object, or the mental representation thereof, capable of evoking a whole, yet flexible, field of objects. It is not an object qua object, but object qua agent of elicitation. Thinking in terms of paradigmatic symbols needs no addiononal rules of interpretation, while thinking in terms of abstract symbols requires an ad hoc rule of interpretation to have any relation with actual behavioral operations. Paradigmatic symbols have their places in the life-oriented internal value structure, while abstract symbols have no relation with value. Elicitory capability and value orientedness of paradigms make inductive inference work. Abstract symbols, having neither of these two properties, cannot make inductive inference work without human help."
"A formal dynamic model which represents the assumptions in Hardin's paper, ``The Tragedy of the Commons,'' exhibits his conclusions explicitly. The calculus serves as an adequate language for the model, but its conclusions are exhibited graphically with the aid of a simulation language and computation. Technological solutions to the ``tragedy'' necessarily fail; coercive solutions admit a range of possibilities. Limitation of the use of the ``commons'' may prove more successful than taxation for the use of the ``commons.'' The model lays both assumptions and conclusions open to critical examination, and serves as a useful teaching tool."
"The modified method of generalized portraits is compared with the original method. Particular attention is paid to the existence of solutions for the two methods and the shape of the resultin decision surfaces in the training space. One finds that solutions always exist in the original method, regarless of the placement of the training vectors. The indecision region is a hyperplane, which may, in extreme cases, cover the entire test space. In the modified method a solution exists only if the members of one class can be encapsulated in a hyperellipse to the exclusion of the other class. The effect of stepcoding is investigated. The results are displayed by means of two-dimensional examples."
"The problem of optimal stopping has long bee of intrest to various scientific disciplines. Most notably, the approacbes taken have been based on sequential decision theory and modeling techniqes. Aiming at optimization algorithms, we propose in this paper to combine the present approaches and study the cut-off rule problem, using asymptotic convergence behavior of sequences. A unifying framework for the design and analysis of stopping rules for algorithms generating a monotonically convergent sequence is presented while methodology for optimal design is discussed. The concavity structure should be observed to play an important role in our analysis."
"Two heuristic methods for locating the global optimum of a multimodal performance index surface are described. One method is based on a modified random creep procedure which first locates a local minimum and then searches the parameter space with vector steps whose mean length gradually increases. The second is a modification of the Kiefer-Wolfowitz stochastic approximation procedure, in which a random perturbation is added to each measurement. Both algorithms are compared by applying them to finding the roots of a nonlinear algebraic equation and to a constrained dynamic optimization problem."
"Consider an item that belongs to one of two classes, θ = 0 or θ = 1, with equal probability. Suppose also that there are two measurement experiments E1 and E2 that can be performed, and suppose that the outcomes are independent (given θ). Let Eí denote an independent performance of experiment EI. Let Pe(E) denote the probability of error resulting from the performance of experiment E. Elashoff [1] gives an example of three experiments E1,E2,E3 such that Pe(E1) < Pe(E2) < Pe(E3), but Pe(E1,E3) < Pe(E1,E2). Toussaint [2] exhibits binary valued experiments satisfying Pe(E1) < Pe(E2) < Pe(E3), such that Pe(E2,E3) < Pe(E1,E3) < Pe(E1,E2). We shall give an example of binary valued experiments E1 and E2 such that Pe(E1) < Pe(E2), but Pe(E2,E2') < P,e(E1,E2) < P,e(E1,E1'). Thus if one observation is allowed, E1 is the best experiment. If two observations are allowed, then two independent copies of the ''worst'' experiment E2 are preferred. This is true despite the conditional independence of the observations."
"In a competitive economy many a firm finds itself caught in the middle of a cost-price squeeze. One approach to this problem is to reduce costs as much as possible. Another approach is to obtain the best prices for its products. This paper is concerned with the competitive aspects of bidding or pricing policies. The best course of action for a person in competition depends on what he expects his competitors to do, and vice versa-interdependent decision. The analysis and examples illustrate the importance of knowing his own and, as much as it is legally permissible, to know of his competitor's relative costs, and also his competitors' bidding or pricing policies. The analysis in this paper is centered on a two-person deterministic competitive bidding game, where in practice each person has a nonlinear incremental cost matrix."
"This paper describes an approach to the problem of signature verificzation that treats the signature as a two-dimensional image and uses the Hadamard transform of that image as a means of data reduction and feature selection. This approach does not depend on the language or alphabet used and is general enough to have applications in such areas as cloud pattern surveys, aerial reconnaisance, and human-face recognition."
"Two nonlinear reinforcement schemes [2], [8] for variable-structure stochastic automata are discussed. It is proved that they can ensure ε-optimality under certain conditions."
"The collective behavior of variable-structure stochastic automata in competitive game situations is investigated. It is demonstrated that when the automata use optimal or ε-optimal reinforcement schemes, the Von Neumann value is achieved for games against nature as well as for two-player zero-sum games having a saddle point. Computer simulations of the latter games also indicate that in the absenice of a saddle point the value of the game oscillates about the Von Neunmann value in mixed strategies."
"This correspondence discusses a restrictive structure of the customary hierarchy of formal languages attained by imposing restrictions on a set of productions and on their Iuse by means of codewords. A coded fuzzy language (CFL) is defined in order gap between formal languages and natural languages. Somte properties of CFLs and their relationships to the restrictive device are studied. A cyclic language of order n is defined to investigate properties of formal and fuzzy languages with regard to classes of recognizers."
"Operations of the Chinese abacus in arithmetic computation follow a set of rules for moving beads. Such rules are memorized and followed by the operator to carry out computation rapidly even if he is mathematically untrained. In this correspondence, these rules, in terms familiar to the western reader, are discussed. Some problems inherent in the abacuis are also pointed out."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Further developments in physical scale counting are described. These eliminate the infrequent errors still possible in the methods noted previously and permit count rates to approach the maximum theoretically possible for the system. These methods employ four-point cycles with deliberate counter backlash."
"Increasing the capacity of a recent voltage regulator for dc shunt generators, using several power transistors in field circuit."
  "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
   "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "It is generally a problem to select the appropriate preprocessing and feature-extraction technique in most pictorial pattern recognition applications so that an accurate classification is possible. In this paper a class of pictures of medical importance, namely, chest X-ray pictures, is used to test the proposed preprocessing and feature-extraction technique. The technique presented in this paper is applied only to chest X-ray images; however, the same technique could also be applied to a fairly broad class of picture patterns with only some minor modifications. The proposed preprocessing technique, which utilizes the local and global information of the picture patterns, is to extract the lung boundary. The lung field is then enclosed by a polygon which is the piecewise linear approximation of the lung boundary. The set of texture features, which are the average of some local property measures, is has then extracted in this approximated lung area. The proposed technique been tested on two sets of X-ray picture classes-one with abnormalities caused by a known disease and the others with abnormalities caused by some unkown effects in the lung region. The classification results presented in this paper show the feasibility of the proposed pictorial pattern recognition system in effectively screening out the abnormal pictures without human intervention."
"In this paper the entropy functional is derived in the context of decision making under uncertainty. It is shown that the mathematical description of a decision problem can be partitioned into two parts: a probability distribution p and a convex set LN(A) that describes the remaining structure of the problem. The question of selecting a general representative form for this convex set is explored, and a set of assumptions is proposed that specifies a form for such a representative set LN. Corresponding to this set LN, the entropy of the probability p can be interpreted as an information measure with respect to decision problems. In addition, it is shown that if this set LN is substituted for the set LN(A) in a given decision problem, the use of the maximum entropy criterion for probability selection corresponds to a minimax solution to the representative form of the problem. To the extent that the set LN resembles the set LN(A) in a given decision problem, the use of the maximum entropy criterion for probability selection corresponds to a minimax criterion for decision making."
"This paper presents two methods for optimizing system dynamics models of social systems, using the Forrester world model as the vehicle of demonstration. Specifically, the extensions necessary to apply 1) parameter optimization techniques and 2) the variational calculus are discussed together with resultant implications for the behavior of the world model. It is proposed that such analytical techniques generate additional objective information and insights regarding model behavior and hence may contribute to subjective deliberations regarding model validity and utility."
"Optimal maintenance policies for a machine with degradation in performance with age and subject to failure are considered. The optimal policies are shown to be generally of a bang-coast nature, except in the case where the probability of machine failure is a function of maintenance. It is also shown, in the case where machine failure is not taken into account, that a high depreciation rate tends to reverse this policy to coast-bang. The results obtained here extend and unify the recent results for this problem."
"A new approach to process control is presented. Complete automation is, from the outset, considered undesirable. Instead, an evolutionary approach is proposed, and the successive stages of growth of the control system are described, from a totally human-controlled process to a greater degree of automation. A man-machine control of a lithography printing press is presented. Instead of proposing a new kind of automatic controller intended for eliminating the human operator, cooperation between the pressman and the computer control system is advocated in order to use their complementary characteristics. An application of the approach on a computer-based model of a press and a discussion of the results obtained by experienced pressmen are given."
"Semiautomated tasks frequently require humans to perform highly repetitive boring jobs such as placing objects into machine fixtures. The use of an electromechanical hand design is discussed which may operate in conjunction with industrial robots, part feeders, and minicomputers to perform some of these jobs. Flexibility is achieved with the same hardware by using different control algorithms for differently shaped objects. The design principle which permits simplicity is that the motion which is used to adjust object orientation is also instrumental in the detection of orientation. A ``hand'' was built and a control algorithm to orient a specific object was developed. The control algorithm first recognizes orientation by computing asymmetries and then conditionally adjusts a positional servomechanism in the hand to bring the object to a standard orientation. Tests verified hand performance and indicated restrictions on object shape. Regardless of the initial angle (360° range) about the uncontrolled axis, the computer-controlled hand adjusted this angle to within ±3°. For the prototype, object shape is primarily restricted by the requirement that objects must have their principal axes directed to within ±10° by conventional part feeders and sorters."
"An electrooptical head-position monitoring system was designed and built and is used in single-axis and three-axis ``hands-off'' control tasks. The monitor consists of a transparent plexiglass body-fixed helmet provided with a set of eight silicon photodetectors sensing pitch, roll, and yaw motions of the head. Two light-emitting diodes, attached to the pilot's helmet liner, provide the ac modulated near infrared radiation. Head control is compared with conventional manual control for single-axis and three-axis tracking tasks. Both performance curves and describing functions are presented."
"Our society is concerned about controlling pollution without excessive depression of consumption. In this correspondence a which, in conjunction with a utility function, determines the manner in which consumption should vary with time so as to maximize utility. It is assumed that a specified pollution level is to be achieved at the termination of a given planning period, and the problem is to obtain the optimum path to this objective. As a special case, a steady-state solution is obtained, which specifies the most desirable constant levels of consumption and pollution. Critical parameters that enter into this solution are the discount (or appreciation) rate for the future, the decay lifetime for the pollutant, and the rate of change of pollution generation with respect to consumption. In addition, a closed-form solution is obtained for the low-pollution case. which indicates that the optimum consumption function decreases with increasing time, Computer solutions are given for the general case with several different values of critical parameters."
"Engineers involved in the design and analysis of complex systems can use computer simulation as a systems analysis and synthesis tool. Discrete-event simulation, coupled with dynamic display while the model runs on the computer, provides new opportunities for insight into complex systems. One higher order simulation language GPSS was used as a foundation upon which were added data bases, human interactivity, and display graphics. Through the use of these additions, the user can dynamically interact with the system being simulated. While the simulation is in progress, a series of pictorial representations of the system are presented. These may be stopped, restarted with new data, or continued at the users command. To extend the simulation capability to include continuous system aspects, GPSS was coupled to a high-order continuous simulation language CSMP."
"We consider a multiproduct firm which, through price changes, plans to increase by specific amounts the demand for one or more goods, while holding constant the price of certain other goods as well as the demand for all remaining goods. It is shown under certain reasonable assumptions that when the price of a good is fixed, the demand for each other fixed-price good is either increased or unchanged and the consumer pays more for each good whose demand the firm plans to increase (relative to the case in which the price of that good is not fixed)."
"Two types of recurrence equations arise in finite-horizon Markov renewal decision processes. One gives expected return when the goal is to maximize return per transition (transition optimal); the other gives expected return when the goal is to maximize return per unit time (time optimal). Previous work [1]-[3] has shown how the transition-optimal equations can solve the infinite-horizon problem by providing near-optimal policies and bounds on the gains of these policies and the optimal policies. This correspondence obtains analogous results with the time-optimal equations."
"A simple and straightforward derivation of the optimal form for the Kiefer-Wolfowitz stochastic approximation coefficients is presented. The results follow immediately from the mean-square sense convergence proof for the Kiefer-Wolfowitz algorithm by minimizing the upper bound of the error variance."
"This correspondence examines the possibility of recursive prediction for the daily maximum temperature based on a state variable model. It is shown that past data can be processed for identifying a suitable noisy state model for this process. Once the model is selected the ``corrector-predictor'' algorithm of Kalman is readily applied for predicting the daily maximum temperature for a chosen lead time. The method is illustrated by predicting the daily maximum temperature of Delhi, India."
"The square of the perimeter of a figure divided by its area P2/A is a classical measure of the noncompactness of the figure. In Euclidean geometry, P2/A is always at least 4π, and takes on this minimum value only if the figure is a circle; larger values correspond to figures that are less compact than circles. In digital pictures, however, certain squares or octagons-depending on how P is measured-yield smaller values than do digitized circles. Thus for digital pictures, though P2/A may be useful as a practical measure of noncompactness, it possesses certain pathological features of which users should be aware."
"The recognition and learning of Chinese characters are much more difficult than that of a check due to their complexity in the construction of features and lack of interrelationship and overall rules. The same words, written in different styles and habits by two persons, might be taken to be different words in the eyes of the scribes. It is important not only that the Chinese character be recognized, but also that it be recognized quickly and correctly by a simple program. An advanced procedure for recognition by use of the Markov chain procedure is presented."
"The one-to-one relationship between finite automata, regular (type-3) languages, and regular expressions is well known. This correspondence demonstrates the use of regular expressions for describing deterministically finite fuzzy automata and regular fuzzy languages, and introduces a normal form for the production of a regular fuzzy grammar when the ``max(min)'' rule is used."
 "Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
 "A theoretical planning model that consists of a composite set of modal networks for serving the population in an urban area or region is presented. By varying and controling various parameters in the model, an equilibrium of modal choices can be obtained by seeking the condition that no user can alter his path without experiencing an increase in cost. The equivalence between equilibrium conditions and a nonlinear programming problem will be established, following a fundamental theorem. Thus, under small perturbations in the composite network, either through changes in the frequency of certain trips or changes in the structure of the network, it is possible to linearize about the observed equilibrium to determine the effects of perturbations."
"A Boolean matrix equation model is obtained for a class of discrete event systems in which the state change associated with each event occurrence is deterministic, and in which all entities are permanent. The Boolean matrix equations are quite compact and can be efficiently programmed on a digital computer. A conveyor system is used as an example. The model can be investigated for determinacy, zero states, and cycles. Algorithms are presented that determine whether transient events interact, and whether transient cycles exist. The zero states of a model are shown to be solutions of a simple Boolean matrix equation."
"A mathematical representation of text editing tasks and a model of the implementation of such tasks by man-machine systems is introduced. The model assumes an abstract system that is characterized by a set of parameters such as insert rate, delete rate, etc. This model is used to derive the optimal operation strategy for a system and the expected editing rate as a function of the document's length and the parameters describing the work load and the system. Based on these results, some criteria are suggested for evaluating alternative text editing systems and for determining tradeoffs involved in designing such systems."
"A model for the economy of the State of Oregon viewed as a small open entity in the larger U.S. economy is proposed here with both production and capital formation simulated by continuous, dynamic submodels. Economic activity is modeled on a sectoral (industry) basis, and an inventory concept is used to both separate the transient behavior of supply and demand and to generate price levels. Wage rates and natural resource prices are generated internally, while export demands are supplied exogenously. The capital formation is achieved using an adaptation of models by Phillips [11] and Bergstrom [12]."
"A constructive solution to the estimation problem of linear hereditary systems with time-varying delay is presented using a least-squares fit to the contaminated data. The utilization of optimum control theory yields a split boundary value problem, which is transformed to an initial-value problem by utilizing the theory of Fredholm resolvents. Applications of the theory to man-machine systems, for example, are indicated."
"A new clustering algorithm is presented that is based on dimensional information. The algorithm includes an inherent feature selection criterion, which is discussed. Further, a heuristic method for choosing the proper number of intervals for a frequency distribution histogram, a feature necessary for the algorithm, is presented. The algorithm, although usable as a stand-alone clustering technique, is then utilized as a global approximator. Local clustering techniques and configuration of a global-local scheme are discussed, and finally the complete global-local and feature selector configuration is shown in application to a real-time adaptive classification scheme for the analysis of remote sensed multispectral scanner data."
"Within any given recognition class of handprinted characters, many pairs of characters are related to each other by continuous distortion. It has been usual to exploit this fact by using sequential recognition techniques that would not work if the predominant distortions were discontinuous. This paper introduces a new and highly parallel method of exploiting continuity. This method is shown experimentally to yield lower error rates than a comparable method of recognition that does not take account of continuity."
"Some of the elements of the criminal justice system are expressed in mathematical terms. The function of the criminal justice system is postulated to be the minimization of all the losses to society resulting from crime. Losses considered include the direct and indirect loss due to a crime, the loss to the convicted criminal due to the punishment he receives, and the net cost of imposing the punishment. The expression for overall loss also includes the probability of a member of a population committing a particular crime as a function of the severity of the punishment for that crime and the probability of arrest and conviction for the crime. In minimizing the loss to society, the loss to the criminal from his punishment should be included in some circumstances, but not in others. Suggestions are made on how required parameters for the criminal justice model might be obtained, in some cases experimentally."
"A decision-directed error correcting scheme for non-paramnetric imperfectly supervised learning is proposed. The proposed procedure is based on a nearest neighbor rule with a reject option and combines the knowledge accumulated by the learning scheme with that provided by the supervision. An asymptotic analysis of the error correction scheme shows that relabeling of training measurements can have a lower probability of error than the supervision provided Bayes' probability of error is less thani the supervisions probability of error. Computer simulations are used to compare the performance of the proposed scheme with the performance of the k nearest neighbor rule without error correction."
"The provision of many public services is accomplished by means of a network of facilities. As demand for the service grows, the facilities in the network must be reinforced. Alternatives may exist, however, which temporarily defer one or more reinforcements. A model is presented which enables the optimal deferral policy in a single terminal flow network to be determined. The algorithm is illustrated by its application to a telephone exchange cable network."
"The variables in a fuzzy logic system may be assigned any truth value in the closed interval [0,1]. Assuming independent logic value assignments with known probability distributions, the effects of subsequent logic operations are examined."
"Graph theoretical arguments are used to show that the hierarchical clustering scheme induced by Tamura's N-step fuzzy relation f is contained in the maximal single linkage hierarchy. A method of computing f is proposed, based upon Prim's algorithm for generating maximal spanning trees and a result reported by Hu on maximal capacity routes in maximal spanning trees. It is shown that this procedure is superior to Tamura's generalized matrix multiplication algorithm with regard to both computing time and storage requirements."
"An algorithm is presented to test the graph isomorphism for undirected linear graphs. The graph isomorphism between two or more graphs can be tested by obtaining their optimum codes. The algorithm relabels the nodes of graphs to obtain optimum codes. The optimum code is the code of maximum weight obtained from the upper triangle of the Adjacency matrix of the given graph. The method of ordering the nodes of a graph to produce a code invariant to isomorphism is related to invariant features in feature extraction [7], [15]."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents information for authors for this issue of the periodical."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"This is the section we mentioned in our Introduction. Our Associate Editor, Mel Appelbaum provides us with the following pertinent to the Sales Planning and Analysis System. Until recently, so-called management information systems contained little more than cost data and sales data. There was no information. The information resulted only from analysis of the data and the subsequent analysis of the information led to long-range planning. Most of the time, however, these analyses were performed on an ad hoc basis. Ms. Yorke has systematized sales analysis and planning making it much easier for planning engineers, sales engineers, and managers to function within their respective areas. The system described is a tracking system. That is, it not only records what is happening to the numbers, it also permits recording of reasons why the dips or rises occurred. In other words, when a dip takes place and the organization determines why (such as a strike), the reason can be fed into the computer and retained there to explain that dip six months later (or more) when everyone has forgotten what happened. The system tracks actual sales versus forecast versus the target. It produces an \"exception\" report if the deviation between forecast and actual is statistically significant. It further accumulates the exceptions to produce cumulative exception statistics. Its major usefulness to the user is to enable him to reforecast his sales or other projection in view of the cumulative exceptions that imply a shift of trend. It can be adapted to track product liability claims, process changes, and many other alphanumeric combinations."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"Superseded. Methods and requirements for qualifying continuous duty Class 1E motors for use in nuclear power generating stations are provided. The methods are used for qualifying motors, extending the qualification, and updating the qualification if the motor’s design or specified service conditions are modified. The requirements include the principles, procedures, and methods of qualification as they relate to continuous duty Class 1E polyphase squirrel cage AC motors."
"Summary form only given. Use of a narrow slit as an electron-optical lens for forming patterns of lines having submicron linewidths and interline spacings by electron image projection rather than by pattern tracing with an SEM is reviewed. Initial applications of this “slit-lens” technique were to forming interdigital transducers having the same overlap for all finger pairs (no “apodization”), and delay lines were produced on LiNbO3 for operation up to 2.8 GHz (~0.33-μm lines on ~0.66-μm centers). A recently developed variant of this technique for fabricating transducers having overlap-weighted apodization is presented and its application to the fabrication of a Hamming-weighted device is described. The basic imaging technique involves application of several kV dc between a conductive plate having a narrow slit and the nearby resist-coated target or substrate; a low-energy electron beam passing through the slit from a relatively distant source is converged only in the direction transverse to the slit by the field, thereby producing a line image on the target having a much smaller width than the slit. Object patterns for a slit lens consisting of properly designed arrays of apertures (illuminated with an electron gun) are used in conjunction with appropriately placed interdigitation or apodization masks to yield the desired image patterns on the target, with large demagnification factors in linewidths and spacings."
"As presented above, the IGFET model does not include channel-shortening effects; L is a constant channel length. The modelling of these effects is treated specifically in Paper 3.2, the results of which, in association with the present model, give a complete representation of the device. For comparison between the model and measured device characteristics, devices should here be chosen with sufficiently long channels for channel-shortening effects to be negligible in this respect."
"The characteristics of an IGFET operating in saturation are developed in terms of an approximate two-dimensional model of the drain section of the space charge region. This section is treated as a volume obeying Gauss's law, thereby enabling the charge contained in it to be related to the integral of the electric displacement density normal to its surface without having to consider the detailed distribution of charge inside. An explicit expression is obtained for the drain conductance showing its dependence on device geometry, processing parameters and applied voltages. Closed form solutions for the current and conductance are obtained by neglecting the mobile carriers in the drain section. Substrate currents are evaluated using a simple impact ionization model."
"The specific current voltage characteristics of ESFI (or SOS) MOS Transistors are shown and explained. The ESFI MOSTs are produced on silicon islands: in most applications the electrical substrate is at floating potential. This results two effects: At first a threshold voltage change occurs with increasing drain voltage producing a kink in the current curve; if the drain voltage further increases a parasitic bipolar transistor begins to work and effects another kink or bend in the curve. The finite volume and charge below the gate causes a reduced influence of the substrate on the charge in the channel; therefore at higher substrate doping ESFI MOSTs show a higher transconductance than the corresponding bulk transistors. All these effects are described theoretically; the ID-UD-characteristics could be simulated by a computer model based on the physical effects."
"Results are presented for both theoretical and experimental analyses of low-level avalanche multiplication in an Insulated Gate Field-Effect Transistor (IGFET)."
"The increased use in production LSI circuits of ion implantation, in particular, the use of the depletion load transistor, has prompted re-examination of conventional MOS theory. For enhancement/depletion mode circuits, discrepancies between measured and predicted characteristics appear due to the inadequacy of the conventional depletion load device model. Calculations are described for p-channel depletion load transistors. Comparison of ID-VG characteristics to experiment are given for several energies and doses. A voltage dependent shift in the ID-VG curves is shown to be a direct consequence of hole degeneracy."
"Geometric and temperature effects of the MOS enhanced capacitor are shown to be valuable for MOS D to A conversion and for temperature compensation of MOS oscillators. It is also shown that these effects may be deleterious in one transistor memory and high speed bootstrap circuits."
"A buried channel, two-phase CCD analog shift register with self-aligned implanted barriers has shown high charge transfer efficiency with standard 5 volt clocks at 10 MHz bit rates. Two linear image sensors which employ these CCD registers demonstrate the ease of use and the high quality of image reproduction that results from these properties."
"Our successful experience with four-phase overlapping gate CCD's using double-level aluminum metallization with anodized aluminum isolation (1) suggested applications of this process to a three-phase design in order to increase circuit density. For example, a three-phase CCD area imager would have 78% more resolution elements than a four-phase imager with the same minimum geometries and overall array size. It should be noted that this trend does not extend simply to two-phase designs: they achieve directionality of transfer by the equivalent of a four-phase layout with pairs of adjacent electrodes clocked together or by additional, typically implanted, geometries whose size and critical placement preclude use of minimum electrode size."
"A novel scanning device utilizing the minority carrier storage effect in a bipolar transistor (MCSD) is presented. MCSD principle operation and imaging application are mentioned. MCSD has a working frequency range that depends on the characteristics of the transistors in use, that is, 0.6 - 10 MHz (life time 7F = 50 nsec) or 0.1 - 0.5 MHz (7F = 600 nsec). The computed working range also shows the essential influence of the time constants of transistors. An integrated MCSD with 64 stages and 64 photo-transistors is discussed."
"Epitaxial films of cadmium sulfide grown on silicon and on germanium are used as the basis for Pt-CdS photovoltaic Schottky diodes. The CdS films are vacuum deposited using a resistance heated source and an alumina crucible. The rate of deposition is approximately 300 Angstroms per minute, and the substrate temperature during deposition is 275°C. The platinum films are deposited from a second, tungsten, resistance heated source at a rate of about 7 Angstroms per minute. The thicknesses of the CdS and Pt films are typically 1 micron and 40 Angstroms, respectively. Electrical contact to the platinum electrode is made by thermocompression bonding gold wire to an aluminum pad deposited on the platinum."
"A semiconductor Anti-Stokes light convertor consisting of six layers (p-GaAs, n-GaAs, n-GaxAl1-xAs, p-Gay Al1-yAs, p-GaxAl1-xAs, p-GaAs) has been fabricated using liquid phase epitaxy from Ga-rich melts. The n- and p-type GaAs forms a photodiode, which is integrated with a GaAlAs light emitting diode. Avalanche multiplication of photoexcited carriers is used to increase the LED driving current and thus the total conversion efficiency of the device."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Each page lists the various session names, locations, and times."
"The transferred-electron (=TE) type negative differential bulk mobility (=NDBM) of the Gunn Effect in GaAs has formed one of the cornerstones of a rapidly growing solid-state microwave technology. Reliable solid-state microwave oscillators with several hundred milliwatts of low-noise c.w. power at X-band are commercially available, as are lower-power oscillators up to at least 70 GHz, and amplifiers to at least half the latter frequency. While these developments have by no means reached their inherent limits yet, new approaches to NDBM are already being explored, to take over where the present ones leave off. In this paper we wish to review briefly three such approaches, in the order of an increasingly speculative nature."
"Memory and logic circuits constructed with superconducting switching devices based on electron tunneling between superconductors (1) and Josephson effects (2) can potentially surpass semiconductors in very high performance operation. The devices can readily be switched in less than 100 psec while dissipating as little as 1μW power per device. These characteristics, along with the possibility of using virtually lossless superconducting striplines for interconnection should permit high circuit densities, small dimensions and short intercircuit connections, which are pre-requisites for high performance operation of logic and memory networks."
"It has been said that the path to future industrial power resides in the domain of those nations which can demonstrate a virtuosity in the evolving silicon technology. Whether it be a \"time computer\" C/MOS chip to control the red dots on the face of a digital watch, or the logic controlling the time-division multiplex coding used to automate a complex railway system, silicon devices are becoming amazingly pervasive. One thing is used in common by all the previously mentioned devices-silicon technology. Silicon integrated circuit technology has matured over the last decade to the point where LSI devices are commonplace in the various MOS technologies and are becoming increasingly available in the bipolar technologies."
"This paper describes a new theoretical and experimental approach to understanding optical lithography. Optical absorption properties of positive photoresist are used in the determination of an exposure distribution within the resist. A development rate relationship is used to calculate developed image surface contours from the exposure distribution. This description of resist performance seems to apply down to the finest detail optically resolvable, the interference between two opposing coherent light beams. The major limits to achieving very high resolution lie in the difficulty of obtaining the desired exposure distribution and in the common misunderstanding that exposure should control image contours directly rather than indirectly through a development rate relationship."
"X-ray lithography using an Alk source (8.34 Å) and masks consisting of gold absorber patterns on single-crystal silicon membranes has been successfully applied to the fabrication of surface wave delay lines, and silicon diodes and transistors. The status of this work and the advantages of using silicon masks will be reviewed. The use of Alk (8.34 Å) and CuL (13.3 Å) sources to replicate gratings with linewidths $1800 Å will be reported on. The CuL source leads to longer exposure times. however it is capable of higher resolution and better control of polymer sidewall profiles."
"We have developed, and describe herein, a new approach to X-ray lithography based on the use of X-rays with wavelengths of 4-6 Å rather than the 8-34 Å wavelength used in previous work. The principal advantage of the shorter wavelengths is that they allow the exposure system to have X-ray windows for increased throughput. We have achieved the replication of submicron size features in metal films using a 4.6 Å Rh Lα source, a new X-ray mask and new X-ray resist with high sensitivity to the shorter wavelengths and improved ion milling techniques."
"The continuing trend towards increasing complexity and decreasing feature size in integrated circuits is pushing photolithography to its limits. This is true for both mask generation and for the transfer of the mask pattern to the wafer. In mask making, step-and-repeat lenses are approaching their diffraction limits as feature sizes diminish and the overall pattern areas grow larger. In the case of pattern replication by optical projection or proximity printing, diffraction again limits the smallest feature which can be reproduced. Finally, in contact printing, both mask and wafer damage occur when the two are contacted, thus limiting the usefulness of this technique for large-area, fine-feature devices. If pattern exposure is carried out with electrons instead of light, these obstacles are removed. Electron beam pattern generation is becoming more efficient, and, in partnership with X-ray exposure techniques, it can offer a practical means for achieving the high resolution lithography demanded by complex integrated devices."
"We review the following applications of electron lithography: (1) making high quality chrome masks for photolithography (2) making, by direct exposure, MOS integrated circuits with finer dimensions than normally obtained with photolithography, to achieve higher packing density and improved electrical performance."
"A recirculating racetrack CCD, 150 bits in circumference has been fabricated utilizing new high speed methods for inputting and outputting charge through the side of CCD's. These techniques use combined, simultaneous serial and parallel charge transfer; and have no detrimental effect upon the CCD transfer efficiency. Since charge may be clocked around the racetrack many times, this CCD facilitates highly accurate transfer efficiency measurements. Typical transfer efficiency measured at 1 MHz after 4800 transfers is 0.99986. No performance degradation due to the input or output structures is observed."
"MOS capacitor pull-up circuits have been studied for high speed MOS digital circuits (1,2), where they are of interest because the output is derived on the leading edge of the clock pulse, with essentially instantaneous precharge by displacement current. The upper frequency limit has however in the past suffered from charge injection into the substrate (2). This paper will detail a successful solution to this problem, with experimental circuit confirmation and discussion of applications including timing circuits, fast decoding, and general logic. N-channel silicon gate integrated circuits realized to present have been a 10 bit serial to parallel shift register/ring counter, capable of driving capacitive loads off chip, and a 16 bit minimal area shift register. Operation on both has been achieved at 22 MHz (12 volt clocks), 18 MHz (8 volt clocks), 13 MHz (5 volt clocks) and 5 MHz (2 volt clocks). The paper will present (a) Results showing how with proper geometrical design and with substrate bias, charge injection to the source rather than to the substrate can be set up. (b) Measurements of the effects of injection to the substrate on circuit performance, when allowed to occur. (c) Some circuit configurations using capacitor pull-up, including fast decoders and an example realization of a moduloS counter."
"The combination of CCD and MNOS devices for signal transfer and nonvolatile storage has been discussed by several workers. In the initial attempt to combine these structures the MNOS storage site was located inside a stepped dielectric, 2φ, CCD shift register. Certain problems were encountered such as inadequate charge handling capability which resulted in poor write characteristics, ineffective write/inhibit operation since high voltage clocks (for good transfer efficiency) caused spurious write operation, poor read operation due to the large access time to first bit and small detection window, and degraded memory retention caused by a small write window and read-disturb effects. To alleviate these problems a compact, nonvolatile, charge-addressed memory (NOVCAM) cell was introduced for block oriented random access memory (BORAM) applications. The NOVCAM cell is composed of a CCD shift register and a thin-oxide MNOS memory structure in parallel with the register to provide separate locations for signal address and storage. Charge is transferred from the CCD shift register to the MNOS structure with a transfer gate φT which results in a collapse of the surface potential beneath the MNOS structure. Once the surface potential is collapsed, the oxide electric field strength increases and the tunneling of signal charge commences from the surface channel into deep traps located near the SiO2/Si3N4 interface. The read-out is nondestructive (NDRO) and accomplished through the control action of the MNOS surface potential which gates the parallel charge injection from a P+ source diffusion into the CCD shift register."
"It can be found from a simultaneous study of MNOS-structures having equal oxide thicknesses, that charge in the structure can penetrate deep in the nitride (even deeper than 200 &#x212B;), and that the penetration depth increases with the nitride field strength. Using this method, it can be proved that the decrease of flat-band voltage is due not only to a charge leakage but at the same time to a redistribution of charges in the nitride. The true nitride charge logarithmically decreases in time, while the depth of the center of charge logarithmically increases."
"This study is aimed at helping to design X-band C.W. transferred electron oscillators with higher performance. It is shown by calculations that the efficiency in C.W. operation is drastically improved by quantitatively controlling the doping profile to account for the temperature profile, and further governed by carrier concentration times layer thickness (nxℓ) product and diode size. Relations among nxℓ product, diode size, and doping gradient are defined. The calculations are substantiated by experiments."
"Summary form only given: Microwave Schottky mixer and detector diodes have been utilized in Microwave Systems. In general, thermal compression bonded Schottky diodes exhibit superior noise figure and better mechanical and environmental reliability when compared to point-contact diodes. However, Schottky diodes have been proven less resistant to burnout in radar systems. Short, high-power RF pulses (T = 1-50 nsec) such as those occuring with T-R tubes are detrimental to the Schottky diodes. This paper describes the investigation of high burnout resistant Schottky barrier diodes for X and Ku-band frequencies. High burnout resistant Schottky barrier diodes have been developed by utilizing Platinum for the barrier on n-type epitaxial silicon. The epitaxial Silicon parameters and metalization schemes were optimized to obtain low noise figure and high burnout resistance. X-band diodes exhibit RF burnout greater than 100watts (T= 3 nsec, 103 pulses per sec) and r:burnout of 3 watts which is two to five times greater than presently manufactured Schottky diodes. The na no second pulse burnout exceeds even that of the high point-contact diodes. Similar results were noticed for Ku-band diodes. These diodes exhibit near ideal electrical characteristics and low noise figure. The processing and characteristics of such a Schottky barrier for mixer and detector applications will be discussed. Reflected RF power was monitored during the RF burnout tests and SEM pictures were taken at various stages to understand the burnout mechanism. A complete failure analysis of these devices will be presented."
"Small-signal admittance characteristics of X-band Si p++nn+, GaAs Mnn+ (conventional), and GaAs Mn1n2n+ (hi-lo Read) IMPATT diodes were measured at various junction temperatures for different dc current levels. It was shown that GaAs Mnn+ diode is superior to Si p+nn+ diode in temperature characteristics and that GaAs Mnn+ diode has smaller temperature coefficients in the device admittance as compared to GaAs Read diode. Small-signal theoretical calculation was also carried out for GaAs conventional and Read diodes having the same parameters as used in the experiment. Reasonable agreement was found in the temperature dependence of the device admittance between theoretical and experimental results."
"Experimental efficiencies of up to 35.5 percent have been reported for Read-type GaAs diodes, whereas realistic theoretical calculations have predicted an upper limit of approximately 30 percent for the conversion efficiency of IMPATT diodes. The concept of a premature collection mode is shown to resolve this discrepancy by predicting maximum efficiencies close to 40 percent. Premature collection refers to large-signal conditions where the modulation of the drift width is sufficiently large to result in collection of the avalanche current pulse at drift angles smaller than the small-signal angle. The onset of premature collection is accompanied by a substantial increase in power output because of a more favorable drift angle, and by high noise because of the high rf levels involved. The hysteresis in the tuning characteristic resulting from the discontinuous transition has been observed experimentally."
"Planar Trapatt diodes in the form of single diodes and multiple diode arrays have been successfully fabricated for the first time with good rf performances. A seven-diode array has produced 500 W pulsed power output at 1.4 GHz with 30% efficiency. Duty cycles of 2% have been achieved. The multiple diodes have a superior thermal characteristic and are more rugged compared with mesa structures with junction edges exposed. Diode chips have been run thermal tests at 500°C for over 300 hours without failure."
"An experimental static shift register element using Josephson devices has been designed and fabricated using a one mil minimum linewidth technology. An experimental eight-bit shift register operated with all data patterns at a maximum shift rate of 160 MHz. At 200 MHz, which was the maximum frequency capability of our instrumentation, only limited data patterns could be executed correctly. This problem was found to be associated with the internal power distribution scheme adopted for the design, together with the non-ideal external pulse waveforms. The average power dissipation was only 20μ watt per bit. Computer simulations indicate that the present design with an improved powering scheme is capable of operating at a shift rate of 360 MHz."
"Summary form only given. The Night Vision Goggle System, recently developed by the Night Vision Laboratory and the International Telephone and Telegraph Company (ITT), has been very successfully demonstrated in various night operations such as driving, flying and other close-up operations. The light amplifier is a proximity focused image intensifier with a microchannel plate (MCP) as the gain mechanism. A major problem in development life, caused by a decrease of the cathode sensitivity due to ion feedback from the MCP. In addition, ions feedback is responsible for the very bright scintillations at the output phosphor screen giving the output image a degraded noisy appearance especially at very low light levels. At the Night Vision Laboratory, a technique was developed to coat the input of the MCP with a very thin film of Al2O3, preventing ion feedback but allowing electrons with energy greater than 800 ev to pass with practically no loss. This increased the operational lifetime of the intensifier by more than a factor 10. By modifying the processing of the MCP in the tube and some redesign of the tube structure other performance characteristics were also improved."
"A novel tri-color pick-up tube which has the ability to simultaneously generate three independent video signals with a single tube has been successfully developed for use in a single tube color TV camera. The target consists of three sets of 216 color-sensitive striped electrodes corresponding to the red, green and blue striped filters. The striped electrodes of SnO2 are precisely delineated by sputter-etching through a chromium mask and connected by the multilayered interconnection method. Cameras utilizing this new pick-up tube exhibited excellent performance owing to the target structure. That is, the hue of reproduced picture was natural and faithful to that of the original scene and the camera was easy to handle and stable in operation. The size was 125mm × 105mm × 310mm and the weight was 3.9kg."
"Separating optical waveguides are expected to become important in integrated optics. They occur whenever a branching waveguide is used (Fig. 1a) or whenever two parallel waveguides in close proximity are separated (Fig. 1b). These situations will arise in virtually all applications of electrooptic switches and waveguide couplers that depend on evanescent coupling. Using quasi-normal modes and a step transition model we have studied theoretically the mode conversion behavior of separating planar dielectric waveguides as a function of taper slope and mode synchronism, which is adjusted by branch asymetry. When the taper slope is large in a near symmetric structure, considerable mode conversion will occur and the structure will act as a power divider (Fig. 2b). Incident power concentrated in the upper and lower parts of the structure will end up in the upper and lower arms of the branch, respectively. This behavior is usually required for conventional evanescent couplers. However, in a more asymmetric structure with smaller taper slope, mode conversion is negligible' and the structure will act as a mode splitter (Fig. 2a). Mode power is then transferred to one arm of the branch or the other. The transition boundary between a power divider and mode splitter (Fig. 3) is conveniently described approximately by: Δβ/βy>;<;.43.Here Δβ is the difference in mode propagation constant for large waveguide separation, e is the taper slope, and y is the decay constant of the field in the separating region. This result will allow quantitative design of mode splitters or power dividers, as desired, and should aid in the design of separating waveguides with minimum radiation losses."
"Previous studies of liquid crystal waveguiding characteristics have indicated severe drawbacks in the case of nematic thin film waveguides (1). A theoretical characterization of the nematic system was developed utilizing a Green's function analysis of the depolarized scattering based on the thermal fluctuation theory of De Gennes (2). The calculations predict substantial losses for the zero-field case (~ 28 dB/cm) and these, together with the predicted structure in the power distribution, have been experimentally verified. A modification of the analysis to include the effect of electric field quenching of the thermal fluctuations predicts that significant damping of the scattering losses should be possible in the case of nematic molecules possessing large positive dielectric anisotropy. This prediction has been experimentally confirmed in the case of a number of room temperature nematogens. However, there remains a fundamental limitation of all pure nematic waveguide systems. This is that the dynamic response of nematic materials is governed, in the case of decay (i.e. turn-off) time, solely by weak elastic restoring torques and is thus generally slow (~ millisecond)."
"Progress on the guided-wave acoustooptic and electrooptic sequential switches for optical time-multiplexing and -demultiplexing is described in some detail. The performance figures obtained so far indicate their potential use for future ultra-high data rate fiber/integrated optics systems."
"Lasing characteristics of GaAs-Ga1-xAlxAs double-heterostructure distributed feedback diode lasers are investigated at 80-100 K under electrical pumping. The main subjects studied here are the spectrum and mode of the distributed feedback laser and its temperature characteristics. Single longitudinal mode oscillation is observed at wavelengths which are determined by the corrugation period. The temperature dependence of the wavelength is about 1/3 that of the cleaved Fabry-Perot laser made from the same wafer."
"Distributed feedback laser was observed in CdS with a simple DFB structure under electron beam excitation. The lasing characteristics such as the temperature dependence and the time dependence of the laser were examined. The line width of the laser spectrum was found to be less than 0.8 Å. Compared to a conventional laser, the lasing wavelength was insensitive to temperature. The dependence of the lasing wavelength on temperature is explained by the change of the refractive index. In some samples the DFB lasing was observed to occur only at the start of the excitation pulse and the pulse width was much shorter than that of a conventional laser. This phenomenon is explained by a gain switching mechanism."
"PbS(1-x)Sex single heterostructure (SH) and double heterostructure (DH) diode lasers have been fabricated using a 300°C Vacuum deposition process. Epitaxial layers of p,n PbS(1-x)Sex (x=0, 0.28, 0.54, 0.60) have been grown on bulk single crystal substrates of p,n PbS0.78Se0.22 in a planar configuration. At 12°K pulsed laser emission is observed at 4.98μm (SH, x=0.28), 5.60μm (DH, x=0.54) and 6.10μm (DH, x=0.60) corresponding to the bandgap energies of the grown layers. Pulsed threshold current densities at 12°K are 200 A/cm2 (SH, x=0.28), 80 A/cm2 (DH, x=0.54) and 60 A/cm2 (DH, x=0.60). Pulsed power outputs in all modes range from 1-5 mW at 12°K with 5000 A/cm2 drive. DH lasers operate CW at 12°K. Improved DH device structures operate pulsed at 77°K with threshold current densities of 1500 A/cm2. Lattice mismatches of 0.25%-1.2% do not seriously limit laser performance."
"A static 1024 × 1 self-aligned silicon gate COS/MOS Random Access Memory has been developed using `self-registry' techniques to achieve high packing density. The techniques developed permitted a 7500 transistor COS/MOS memory circuit to be fabricated in a 0.134 × 0.168 inch2 chip, with a 13.4 mil2 cell. Such packing density is approximately 5 times that of conventional metal gate COS/MOS circuits."
"There are many failure modes in 1103 type MOS RAM'S. Some chips have very unique and unfamiliar failure modes. These chips pass both shipping and incoming tests but often fail at the memory system test and significantly decrease the reliability of the system. To eliminate these chips and improve the reliability, we examined the failure modes of them and found effective test methods. By applying these technologies, we have established the good correlation between the chip test and the system test, and achieved the high reliability of the memory systems."
"The major considerations going into the design of nonintercepting gridded guns is discussed and typical performance characteristics of gridded guns in linear-beam tubes are described."
"A semi-automatic system for testing electron beams has been developed. It consists of a demountable, bakeable vacuum chamber, which contains the electron gun under test and a motor-driven pinhole target for scanning the electron beam. A minicomputer (Hewlett-Packard 9820) controls the movement of the target, stores the readings from a digital voltmeter in its memory, and later processes those data. This system provides information on the current and transverse velocity distribution in the beam, which can be used to predict its behavior in a focusing system with greater accuracy than previously possible."
"Experiments and results are presented which are related to the beam injection in crossed-field amplifiers. A new type of gridded crossed-field electron gun with beam injection control for micro-wave devices is described which shows the potential of raising the efficiency of IBCFA's above 40%."
"Impregnated matrix cathodes have been observed to fail unexpectedly in initial phases of life due to poisoning. They have similarly been found to give abnormally delayed response when rapid turn-on performance is required. Loss of emission with life is also a problem. Analytical studies of the surface properties of some of these cathodes have been initiated using combined Scanning Low Energy Electron Probe (SLEEP) techniques for measuring work function variations and Auger Electron Spectroscopy (AES) techniques for determining surface atomic composition. The correlation between the electronic and atomic surface properties as applied to some of the above mentioned cathode failures will be given here."
"Design principles for a high pulse-up dual mode TWT employing dual electron beams are discussed. The tube employs a large hollow beam for CW mode operation and a reduced diameter, dense solid beam for the pulse mode. This scheme affords greater CW mode efficiency, reduced gain change between modes, and higher stability against backward wave oscillation than other, more conventional, pulse-up techniques. A dual-cathode electron gun incorporating an annular hollow beam cathode, concentric and co-planer with a solid beam cathode, has been designed and evaluated. By allowing a tailored magnetic field to penetrate the cathode region, both beams have been focused in a solenoid with excellent transmission to the collector. An S-band unifilar helix TWT operated with these electron beams has exhibited a minimum of 7 dB power pulse-up over an octave frequency band. The tube also demonstrated low gain change between modes and unconditional stability to backward wave oscillation."
"This paper describes the design, fabrication and test results of a developmental Electron Bombarded Semiconductor (EBS)microwave amplifier. The EBS amplifier utilizes an electrostatically focused, 20 kV electron beam to produce an amplified current in a pair of silicon diodes by impact ionization. The input signal is applied to a broadband meander-line structure which deflects the electron beam, producing a linear modulation of the electron beam current striking the diodes. The diodes are mounted in radial-line resonators which present an optimized impedance to the amplified RF current produced in the diodes and which also provide RF matching to the diode capacitance. A novel interconnection of the resonators permits operating the diodes in dc parallel and RF series. The maximum output power obtained to date is 520 watts at 0.1 percent duty at 1.5 GHz and 250 watts at 1 percent duty. At the 500 watt level the saturated gain is 23 dB and small signal gain is 29 dB. The 3 dB bandwidth is 106 MHz or 6.8 percent."
"A signal processor has been developed which can multiplex multiple input data lines into a single output (parallel to serial converter) with an output data rate of up to several Gigabit/sec. Among its possible applications, the device is intended for use in digital communications to drive a PIN diode (waveguide) modulator. The specific device to be described consists of a pencil-beam electron gun, a beam rotation system, eight input gates, a beam bending electrostatic Einzel lens, and a single semiconductor target. Operation of the processor is as follows: The beam rotation system launches the pencil e-beam into conical rotation. The conically-rotating beam goes through the gates and is then bent and refocussed by the Einzel lens onto or off the target, depending on the polarity of the input gate signals (ones or zeros). A signal processor output of 0. 8V into 50-Ω has been achieved with a 0. 15 ns-rise-time target at 1. 6 and 2 Gbit/s output data rates. With a 0. 3 ns-rise-time target, the output was 5V into 50-Ω at 1. 6 Gbit/s data rate and can be increased to 10V by doubling the beam current density."
"Operation and circuit performance of a new negative resistance insulated-gate field-effect transistor will be described. The negative resistance arises by interaction of a bipolar and an insulated-gate field-effect transistor. The gate voltage-controlled N-shaped negative resistance is similar to that of a tunnel diode, except that larger voltage and current excursions are inherent to this device. Electrical performance of integrated experimental devices and examples of circuit applications will be presented."
"A negative impedance transistor (NEGIT) is realized by placing a gate on the oxide over the emitter-base junction and attaching it to the collector. Careful study of two models describing the increase of base surface current with increasgate voltage shows that small geometry devices can be designed with the gate just covering the e-b junction and not extending significantly over the base surface. Based on this principle, I.C. devices have been designed and realized, with the gate covering less than 100% of the e-b junction to allow emitter contacting. Experimental results confirm the design principle. Devices with the gate extending respectively 4 and 9 μm over the base show almost identical characteristics in the voltage region corresponding to the maximum rate of collector current decrease. The smallest geometry devices fabricated occupied an area 5.5 mils × 5.25 mils. Dynamic common-emitter characteristics maybe displayed by pulsing the gate of an “uncommitted” gate device used in a Darlington configuration."
"This article describes the progress we have made in the design and fabrication of LiNbO3-spinel bulk acoustic delay lines (1,2). We have fabricated a single-ended delay line an line with an instantaneous bandwidth (untuned) from 2 to 15 GHz. For lower frequency and narrower bandwidth applications, a total loss of 16 dB has been achieved with 2 dB bandwidth from 1.3 to 2.1 GHz for 1 μsec delay. Online, computer controlled monitoring of transducer thickness had been incorporated into the fabrication process. Computer aided techniques were used in impedance matching network design."
"In this paper we present a new acoustic surface wave phase locked loop. This device uses the non-linear coupling characteristics of an insulating piezoelectric to an adjacent semiconductor to generate an electric field in the semiconductor. The low-frequency voltage resulting from the spatial integration of the electric field along the semiconductor is used as the controlling voltage of a voltage controlled oscillator. The above device acts as a phase locked loop of either the first order Or the second order, depending on the amplitude of the input waves, the characteristics of the coupling device and the integration length of the electric field in the semiconductor. Both theoretical calculation and experiments in determining the lock range, bandwidth, frequency tracking, and FM demodulation are described."
"Self-sustained discharges initiated by UV volume photo-ionization are an excellent means of pumping pulsed, high-power lasers. As a pre-requisite to understanding the scaling of uniform discharges to large volume, photo-electron generation from a bare spark source was measured versus source distance (2-22 cm), gas composition and pressure (0.2-1 atm), peak spark current (10-1200 amp), spark supply energy (0.0125-2.5 Joules), and spark duration (0.02-40 μs). As a result, the controlling physical mechanisms are now sufficiently understood to specify the initial electron distribution produced by an array of spark sources in an arbitrary CO2, N2. He discharge volume."
"The plasma-cathode electron gun, which is being developed for operation with pulsed and cw e-beam lasers, is described. This device employs a plasma generated within a low-voltage hollow-cathode discharge as the source of electrons (1). Electrons extracted from the plasma pass through a triode-type control grid structure and are accelerated to high energies in a plasma-free region prior to emerging from the gun through a thin foil window. Experimental results obtained with 4×40 cm and 5×125 cm e-guns will be described. These devices have operated under cw conditions at beam energies in excess of 150 keV and beam current densities of 0.1 mA/cm2; earlier experiments have demonstrated the capability for cw and pulsed current densities up to 1 mA/cm2 and 100 mA/cm2, respectively. The plasma cathode electron gun offers an attractive alternative to other e-gun designs for many applications."
"A transformerless Blumlein modulator has been designed to generate a 250 kV-2μs pulse to drive a variable impedance cold cathode E-beam gun. Megawatt average power ceramic metal thyratrons are also being developed as switches for this E-beam modulator and for laser sustainer discharge modulators. Emphasis has been placed on using design concepts which insure reliable performance when the device is operated in a mode where adiabatic processes predominate."
"A technique of generating single nanosecond pulses of CO2 laser radiation using a CdTe electro-optic gate driven by a laser triggered Blumlein structure is described. By the use of intercavity absorbers, simultaneous output is obtained on multiple rotational lines of both the 9.4 μm and 10.4 μm vibrational bands."
"A technique is demonstrated for locking of a GHz tunable waveguide CO2 laser to a voltage programmable absorption line in NH2D. Precision frequency control is demonstrated over the tuning range of the laser and long term frequency stability of better than ±100 kHz is demonstrated. Advantages of the present technique are that no frequency modulation of the laser is required to generate an error signal and the laser frequency is determined by a linear relationship to the Stark cell voltage."
"The analytical results and experimental measurements given earlier provide all the information required to determine a final amplifier design. Using given values of output power and saturated gain, and measured values of small signal gain and saturation intensity, we may use eq. (8) to calculate the required device length, and Fig. 1 to determine the bandwidth. This calculation may be repeated for a series of pressures in order to determine the conditions which require the smallest device length consistent with bandwidth requirements. For example, an amplifier of our bore size producing 100 W of output power and 20 dB of saturated gain would be 4 meters long (at an optimum pressure of 100 Torr) and have a bandwidth of 600 MHz. Further reductions in length can be obtained by cooling to dry ice temperatures (thereby increasing the small signal gain), or by operating in a double pass configuration. We wish to acknowledge valuable technical discussions with G. Rupert."
"The operation of the first self-contained, recirculating chemical laser device is reported. This electrically initiated chemical laser employs a unique gas recirculation scheme in which the laser effluence generated in the laser discharge is subjected to selective scrubbing within the vacuum envelope before it is reintroduced into the laser cavity. The laser system is completely self-contained and employs no exhaust pump. Consequently, in contrast to conventional chemical laser systems, the problems associated with exhausting toxic gases into the environment are eliminated. Experimental data relating to electrically pulsed DF and HF chemical lasers operating for extended periods of time in a self-contained, recirculating mode are presented."
"An ac or dc GaP LED array has been designed and fabricated which has potential as a direct replacement for several tungsten filament lamps and as an illuminator for new design considerations. In designing such an LED for high voltage application, series light emitting junctions rather than series resistors are used as a voltage divider to maximize the light output/power input ratio. A figure of merit is modeled and calculated which provides a measure of total light output for a given applied current and voltage as a function of the number of series diodes. P-n junctions on the same chip were electrically isolated utilizing either proton bombardment or chemically etched trenches. A Au metallization scheme provides the series-parallel interconnection required for ac or dc operation while maintaining junction isolation. The light emitting junction areas are mesas, with edges shaped to redirect internally generated light out to the viewer."
"Remarkable hysteresis were found to excist in a thin film multilayer EL device consisting of a ZnS:Mn active layer sandwiched between a pair of Y2O3, insulating layers. Due to its particular construction, hysteresis was observed between the brightness vs. amplitude of the exciting alternating voltage, which is instrumental to realizing the memory function. Electrical Writing and Erasing are possible by the amplitude modulation of the sustaining voltage. The typical memory margin observed here is about 10 to 30 volts (rms) under operating voltage of 170 to 280 volts (rms) with frequency of 1 to 5 kHz. Gray scale display as well as Optical Writing are possible."
"Thin film EL device made of ZnS:TbF3, Mn by means of electron beam evaporation yield red light (peak wave length 7000 Å) at a brightness of 60 Fl. The color of the light varied from orange to red according to the concentration ratio of TbF3 to Mn. Two emission bands were observed, namely at 5850 Å and 7000 Å. Since the orange band is obviously due to the localized center of Mn2+, our experimental results support that the red emission band is due to the localized center of Mn2+, our experimental results support that the red emission bands is due to the localized center of Mn-F."
"The longitudinal fringe-field electrooptic effect in slim-loop lead lanthanum zirconate titanate (PLZT) ceramics offers the best known possibility of using ferroelectric ceramics for low-voltage, high-contrast numeric and alphanumeric display devices. Such devices appear feasible using either transmitted or reflected ambient light. When using ceramics 75 μrn to 250 μm thick, ON-OFF contrast ratios exceeding 10 dB are obtained with electric fields of 8 kV/cm, and contrast ratios exceeding 20 dB are obtained at 16 kV/cm. These results imply that equally high contrast ratios may be achieved in very thin samples at comparable electric fields but at correspondingly lower applied voltages; e.g., 20-30 volts for a 10 dB contrast ratio with a 25 μm thick ceramic, and 40-60 volts for a 20 dB contrast ratio."
"A new mode of transverse beam-wave interaction is described. Both the coupled-mode method and electron dynamic approach are used to analyze the interaction. Conditions required for the existence of the interaction as well as the gain expression are obtained. Extremely low noise and high power capabilities are anticipated from this interaction."
"The signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) of mechanically scanned imaging sensors can be improved by scanning the same image point over N detectors and adding the resulting detector signals in phase, a process referred to as time delay and integration (TDI). In principle, this allows the signal level associated with a single resolution element to be increased by a factor N, while SNR increases by √N. TDI has previously been demonstrated by using ch.arge coupled devices (CCDs) to delay and integrate the signals from a variety of infrared detectors, including PbSnTe, InSb, and HgCdTe. In these cases, signals from a linear array of detectors were read out and integrated by a CCD register that was located directly on the focal plane (see Figure 1a). Use of an on-focal-plane CCD register to multiplex the individual detector signals for subsequent demultiplexing and TDI off the focal plane (see Figure 1b) is an attractive approach under the following circumstances: . When long dwell times and/or high backgrounds result in a prohibitively large on-focal-plane CCD TDI register. . When access to individual detector signals can be used to advantage in performing signal processing functions before TDI. An OTDI device using CCDs has been fabricated and used to perform OTDI of signals from a 32-element linear array of InSb detectors. Peak D* of 8 x 1012 cm√Hz/w was achieved at a background of 3.4 x 1013 photons/cm2-sec, which is approximately 80 percent of the enhanced BLIP D* at this background. In addition, overload protection and background subtraction circuits were tested, and the compatibility of the OTDI device with a bidirectional image scan was demonstrated."
"The operation of an integrated infrared detector/charge coupled device structure is discussed. Silicon MOS/CCD processing technology has been used to fabricate CCDs with 8, 16, and 32 detector elements on silicon substrates doped with gallium (NGa - 6 × 1016/cm3). Performance of the device has been evaluated at infrared background generated currents ranging from 0. 15 to 50 picoamperes. Signal-to-noise ratios approaching 104 have been measured, which indicates that a dynamic range of at least 80 db can be achieved. Background subtraction and overload protection circuits have been incorporated into the CCD. Signal bandwidth measurements have been made at several backgrounds and clock frequencies from 10 kHz to 100 kHz. The upper temperature limit for detector operation was about 20oK. No anomalous charge transfer effects have been seen at operating temperatures as low as 8oK."
"Interest in extrinsic doped silicon infrared detectors for operation in the mid-infrared (i. e., 3- to 5-μm spectral band) has recently been growing because of the benefits provided by employing silicon technology. The photo-ionization cross section of Si:In operated at temperatures greater than 77°K has been previously measured. This paper presents data on the signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) at temperatures from 4° to 70°K under two conditions of background photon flux density and detector bias. This data was taken from a specimen with an indium doping of 2.7 × 1017 cm-3, Quantum efficiencies of 50 percent were measured. Detectivity, D*, as a function of temperature decreased by about 10 percent at 55°K and was even less at 70°K. Mobility data in conjunction with the measured responsivity data is used to determine the hole lifetime. It has been found that this lifetime increases as the temperature increases. Lucovsky(1) has presented a model of the spectral response expected because of deep impurity levels. The measured spectral response data is in quite good agreement with that predicted by theory."
"In this paper we will introduce a new method of obtaining the pedestal current in a pyroelectric vidicon by electronic means. This is done by pulsing the cathode during the horizontal flyback period to a potential, such that, the beam emitted during that time will strike the target with an energy which is above the first crossover for TGS. By controlling the pulse time or pulse current, any value of positive charge and hence any pedestal current can be achieved in a high-vacuum tube. It will also be shown that pedestal current generated this way is less noisy than that generated by ions. A theoretical and experimental comparison between the performance of tubes using electronically generated and gas generated pedestal currents is given. The performance of an anode potential stabilized tube is discussed."
"Summary form only given. The purpose of this work is to explore the feasibility of a low cost, uncooled, medium performance thermal imaging system for use in the 8-14μm electromagnetic spectral band. An imaging device having the potential of fullfilling the above requirements is the pyroelectric vidicon. The pyroelectric vidicon thermal imaging system has been described in the literature and therefore the principles of operation will be only briefly reviewed. This paper will present the results of work performed at NVL regarding the effect of key parameters on pyroelectric vidicon performance. Recent advances described will include the use of various thin dielectric films evaporated onto the pyroelectric retina to buffer against the electron and residual ionized gas bombardment which usually erodes the surface. The film will minimize or eliminate fixed pattern noise due to crystal imperfections. Improvements in processing to prolong cathode or vidicon life are discussed. Certain pyroelectric polymers are described which improve the thermal and spatial resolution relative to that which is achieved with triglycine sulphate as the retina material. In conclusion a short movie will be shown demonstrating state of the art pyroelectric vidicon performance."
"A novel form of integrated injection logic is described which has significant advantages over its conventional counterpart in packing density and power-delay product. The structure is formed from two epitaxial layers on a heavily doped p type substrate. The p type epitaxial layer, which forms the base of the npn transistor, is lightly doped, allowing the fabrication of Schottky contacts. This gives rise to an extremely powerful multi-input, multi-output logic element on a single base land. The fundamental SFL structure has been successfully demonstrated. Gates and a ring oscillator have been operated and a reduction in power-delay product has been shown. A viable technology for Schottky Barrier Diodes has been demonstrated and an optimised structure has been designed."
"A bipolar technology has been developed which is directed toward low power LSI applications at a wafer processing cost below those of MOS technologies. The structure uses the basic concepts of the triple diffused technology which requires neither an epitaxial nor buried layer; however, ion implantation of both the collector and base provide parameter control not possible with triple diffusion. The use of an ion implanted self-isolated collector region which is lightly doped provides small size and low capacitance; this region is also used for the formation of Schottky diodes. Well controlled, ion implanted resistors can be fabricated in both the base (p-type - 600Ω/□) and collector (n-type -700Ω/□) and substrate PNP's with β ~ 10 are also available. The transistors show a peak fT = 1GHz which makes them suitable even for high speed applications. At present the technology is finding extensive use in low power Schottky clamped TTL circuits where it meets all the standard circuit requirements for that family."
"A new technology based on the anisotropic etching of silicon is presented for the realization of complementary devices. Anisotropic etching is performed on (100) oriented slices, where large areas corresponding to complete devices are etched down at a depth of a few microns. The etching step is discussed and optimized. This basic structure is subsequently applied to two new methods for developing silicon-gate complementary MOS transistors. The advantages of the technology are discussed and compared to other processes. Other new possible applications are presented."
"A MOS digital capacitor capable of operation at VHF and UHF frequencies is described. This new device is made up of a parallel combination of MOS capacitors on a single chip each of which can be individually switched and statically maintained at two distinct RF capacitance values, the maximum binary state being the high frequency MOS inversion capacity and the minimum being that of a deep depletion MOS device. Switching is accomplished by on chip MOSFETs."
"A shallow P-N junction parallel to the surface of a semiconductor can materially alter the C-V characteristic of an MOS structure. This paper is a discussion of the theory of such structures. The analysis is based on a numerical solution of the continuity equations for electrons and holes, and of Poisson's equation in the presence of an applied ac signal as well as a dc gate voltage. The result of the calculation, for any given substrate doping profile, is a C-V characteristic for any given ac signal frequency. The most striking anomaly in the C-V characteristic occurs in the inversion region and is caused by a punch-through condition-that is, the merging of the gate-induced surface depletion region with the P-N junction depletion region. A simple equivalent circuit model, which does not require frequency-dependent capacitors, is proposed."
"A new field effect device which shows the linear relation between the drain voltage(V) and current(I) in the operational range of drain voltage more than ±10 volts has been studied and developed. This device has the special gate structure composed of the semi-insulated polycrystalline silicon resistive layer. Typical electrical characteristics of this device applied to the L-type gain control circuits were measured as follows; 1) the extremely low harmonic distortion less than 0.02 % at 6 db attenuation for the in-put signal level of 0 dbm at 1 KHz, 2) the large attenuation more than 80 db for the large in-put signal level of 20 dbm. This device will be an useful tool to expand the dynamic range and the improvement of circuit characteristics in the gain control circuits and will also be applied for new multi-channel analog switching devices without the tracking error."
"A new MOS device called Continuously Variable Threshold Voltage Device (CVTD), of which threshold voltage is varying continuously in a horizontal direction perpendicular to the drain current under gate electrode, has been proposed and developed. It was found out from the results of experimental and theoretical analysis that the CVTD has various kinds of new phenomena and electrical characteristics compared with the conventional MOS devices. Moreover, some possible and usable application devices used the CVTD concept have also been proposed and developed. At the same time, a new ion implantation technology named the Lateral Impurity Microprofiling (LIM) technology was developed in order to realize the practical CVTDs."
"The JIGFET is a novel type of depletion MOS transistor formed by the implantation of a channel between source and drain. Because of its high bulk-transconductance, its linearity and low noise, the JIGFET has been thoroughly studied and modelled for linear applications. The model based on the depletion approximation has been found to be in good agreement with the solution of the Poisson's equation and the experimental results in both the depletion and the inversion regions."
"The drain current versus gate voltage characteristics of ion-implanted buried-channel MOS transistors were measured and compared with a theory based on the in-depth impurity, mobile carrier, potential and mobility distribution. In more heavily implanted transistors, a characteristic sub-threshold current almost independent of gate voltage is obtained both experimentally and theoretically. For these cases, a new definition of threshold voltage is suggested. According to their potential distribution at threshold, implanted transistors are classified into three groups. The depths and widths of buried channels fall into the transition region from surface to bulk carrier mobility. Models for the mobility distribution including surface and impurity scattering as well as field dependence were used to calculate the active-region conductance."
"Dye lasers are known to oscillate with efficient spectral condensation when a frequency-selective unit is inserted into the laser cavity. The frequency selective elements used heretofore for this purpose were a diffraction grating or Fabry-Perot etalon, utilized either singly or in combination with each other (1), acousto-Optic filters (2) and others. Also several workers studied techniques for locking the oscillation frequency of dye lasers to the specific spectral lines of atoms and molecules. For these experiments, intracavity atomic gas cells were employed to provide Faraday rotation filter and gas discharge cell (3)-(5)."
"A mode-locked tunable dye laser has been developed which is synchronously pumped at high repetition rates by the doubled output of a mode-locked Nd:YAG laser. The dye laser provides intense pulses of 35 psec duration that are widely tunable, of near-transform-limited bandwidth, and in time coincidence with the pumping pulses. Conditions for achieving optimal pulse duration, lasing efficiency, spectral narrowing and tuning are discussed. Initial experiments using synchronous dye and pump laser pulses have demonstrated efficient sum-frequency generation in a KDP crystal of intense tunable near-UV short pulses."
"Summary form only given. We report the theory and experimental demonstration of a laser device which performs the functions of binary arithmetic optically. Completely optical processing of logic functions could constitute a significant breakthrough in speed over conventional electronic processing. In our approach, input light pulses are assigned a binary code (0 or 1) according to their polarization along one of two mutually orthogonal directions. The response of the system to inputs of pairs of pulses consists of a pulse polarized along one of these initial orthogonal directions. The output pulse polarization can be made to correspond to those of the truth table for any of the logic operations of Boolean algebra. We report here achievement of the optical AND gate. The device is based on an optically excited dye laser whose cavity is birefringent. The birefringence reduces the degeneracy of the fundamental 479 mode to two orthogonal linear polarizations coincident with the birefringent axes. The input polarization controls the bistable polarization of the laser output by virtue of the photoselectively induced fluorescence dichroism of the dye medium. Relative adjustment of the respective thresholds for the two output polarizations provides the appropriate functional dependence for these logic operations. The experiment employed a Rh 6G jet stream dye laser pumped by a pulsed xenon ion laser. A novel two-beam polarizing interferometer generated the polarized input pulses. Further theoretical and experimental details will be presented, as well as an assessment of the future role of such devices."
"The purpose of this paper is a proposal of an improved MOST to realize driving many bipolar transistors by an MOST in hybrid integrated circuits skilfully which is fabricated by IC technique, setting a buried layer between channel inversion layer and substrate as an output electrode. This device has an inflection point in output I-V characteristics, the special operation of which is stable and the conductance of this point is high value and this device has high voltage gain when it operates under the source to ground. This means possibility to connect this device with bipolar transistors successfully in hybrid IC. The preparation method of this device is briefly explained and the reason of this device having inflection point in unique I-V characteristics is also discussed."
"Emphasis was on development and testing of microwave window coating materials and technology used to suppress multipactor. Windows were fabricated from Al2O3 ceramic. Coating materials tested included Cr2O3 oxides of titanium and TiN. The latter material was discovered and evaluated during this program, and was found to have excellent multipactor suppression properties. Also, a new vacuum coating procedure featuring crossed field diode array sputtering, was developed and successfully used to coat a number of windows including high power disk shaped S-band and cylindrically shaped UHF klystron windows. Performance of S-band windows both before and after high temperature vacuum bakeout is given. Calorimetrics were used to quantify performance of windows when tested in a high power microwave storage ring."
"Summary form only given. Extensive efforts have been directed in recent years toward the development of microwave tubes with higher output power and, at the same time, with wider bandwidth. These tubes require new types of vacuum windows because the conventional windows are not adequate in their power handling capability and/or bandwidth. In order to meet these requirements, a group of waveguide windows have been developed recently. They are unique in configuration, simple to design and have a number of advantages over windows of conventional designs. Waveguide windows are generally designed by filling the waveguide cross-section with a dielectric material. Due to its higher value of dielectric constant, the waveguide containing window material has a lower cut-off frequency than that of other waveguide sections. This creates mode problems which will limit the useful bandwidth of these conventional windows. If the size of a waveguide with dielectric material is reduced in such a way that the cut-off frequency of this section is equal to that of other waveguide sections, the window can be used for a wider bandwidth. According to this design principle, a number of waveguide windows have been developed, in all of which the width dimensions are reduced from that of the adjoining waveguide, depending on the dielectric constant of the window material. These windows can be designed for rectangular waveguides or ridged waveguides or a combination of both types. If they are used with rectangular waveguide, the full waveguide bandwidth can be utilized through the windows. When they are used with ridged waveguide, their useful bandwidth is as wide as an octave. The measured VSWR is less than 1,3:1 over this entire frequency range. These window designs can be scaled to most frequency ranges of interest without difficulties. With proper cooling around the dielectric 589 material, their power handling capability is expected to exceed that of any conventional windows. The basic design, development effort and test results of these windows will be described. Theoretical investigations aided by digital computers and experimental results to overcome the mode problems will be discussed also. These windows have been used successfully in a number of wide-band traveling wave tubes with the highest output power currently under development."
"The carpitron, an externally R.F. driven cross-field oscillator (carcinotron) has been used for several years as a power amplifier at C Band in ground stations operating in conjunction with Intelsat geostationary satellites. It can amplify one single carrier allowing transmission of a large number of voice channels or one television program. Observed operating life exceeds 25,000 hours. It was thought that this kind of microwave tube could be used as a satellite-borne power amplifier. A carpitron of a simple design built for operation at 12 GHz showed 38% electronic efficiency at 500 watts output power and 15 dB gain. The injected beam is generated by a short kino gun with a cathode current density of 1.5 ampere per square centimeter. An improved tube has been designed, which is presently under construction, with two main objectives: 1. Increase electronic efficiency to 50% or more. 2. Better distribution of the intercepted beam along the delay line. In order to achieve these objectives a large signal computer program was used to design a constant phase velocity, variable impedance, delay line. Computer results show the possibility of efficiency improvement. Confidence in computer program was gained from good correlation between computed and experimental results observed on previous tubes. Computed and experimental results on improved carpitron will be given at the conference. This work has been partly supported by the European Space Research Organization (ESRO)."
"The use of lasers for thermal processing of materials has been studied extensively [1,2]. Their use in integrated circuit processing has been limited mainly to material removal (resistor trimming, metal delineation, etc.) [3]. This paper describes a recently discovered process in which nanosecond dye laser pulses are used to form reliable low resistance ohmic contacts between conductors on integrated circuit chips. In particular, connections have been formed between the aluminum and diffused silicon layers of a conventional MOS structure (Fig. 1). The key to the connection process is the use of short laser pulses (2-6 ns) which are capable of redistributing materials in a microscopic region without damaging heat sensitive structures surrounding that region. This process of connecting initially isolated structures makes it possible to personalize integrated circuit chips after fabrication without the use of high voltages, high currents or decoding circuitry. Moreover the process allows isolation of propagating faults such as short circuits. The rapid turnaround time of this approach is attractive for ROS and PLA personalization [4] and makes chip repair and the interconnecting of good working parts at the chip or wafer level possible. The purpose of this paper is to describe experimental studies of these laser formed connections with an emphasis on the mechanism, reliability and reproducibility of the process."
"Research, or so the story goes, is too individual and creative an activity to be managed. And yet, at the same time, the sponsor of the research must justify its cost against some specific needs, whether they be for national defense, commercial competition or social purpose. Also, by the late 1960's, the number of researchers became large, the funding needs became large, and funding support began to limit."
"The linearity of the electrical signal injection into charge-coupled devices (CCDs) has been studied by measuring the generated higher harmonic components of a sinusoidal input. Results obtained with various injection methods and device geometries have been compared. Best results, with all harmonic components more than 40 dB below the fundamental, have been obtained for surface channel devices with a potential equilibrium method in which the signal is applied to a second input gate, while the first input gate is held at a dc reference potential. Bulk channel devices show more distortions, which is a consequence of the changing charge distribution in the channel with varying channel potential."
"A CCD input structure is presented which derives the injected charge from the difference between two voltage levels on a capacitive node, where both levels are set using the same IGFET structure; near perfect threshold voltage cancellation is predicted. Data are presented which show spatial variations on a multiple input structure at least an order of magnitude less than those achieved using previously reported input techniques."
"A new self-aligning method has been developed to control the emitter width of bipolar transistors in sub-micron sizes. This permits accurate control of distance between the emitter and the base contact region, namely, the outer base region. Desired emitter widths less than the 0.5 μm range, suitable for use in IC production, are routinely achieved. By applying the 3μm wide mask pattern, which is an easy photolithographic technique this method permits control of the emitter width to 0.5μm and the distance of the outer base region to 0.3μm. Since the outer base resistance is remarkably reduced by this method, the base resistance rbb', can be easily reduced to less than 1/4 of that of conventional methods. Application of this method to fabrication of transistors have been shown to improve the noise figure in the very high frequency range as shown in Fig. 1. When the new method was applied to the monolithic CML IC, an excellent tpd value of 0.25ns was obtained, suggesting that the tpd value can be further improved by selecting suitable conditions for the fabrication of IC."
"A GaAs power FET exhibiting 0.7 W saturation output power and 45% drain efficiency applying 6 V at 8 GHz, has been developed. An interdigitated source and drain electrode, and an overlaid gate electrode to connect in parallel 52 gates, are introduced to achieve 2 μm long and 2600μm wide Schottky gate FET."
"The design and development of high RF power GaAs FET's is the subject of this paper. A mature planar fabrication process developed for small signal FET's having: gate lengths ≃ 2μ is described. Very respectable Pf2X values at X-band have been achieved with these 300 μ gate width devices. One approach to higher power devices is simply to extend this established planar device technology to larger gate widths. We have fabricated FET structures with 1000 μ and 2000 μ gate widths and multiple source pads and their RF performance is presented here. A potential scheme for interconnecting the source pads to ground with minimum parasitlcs is discussed along with a novel FET device structure utilizing the fabrication techniques of the GaAs IMPATT technology."
"A high speed FET-differential amplifier stage for application in 50Ω-systems, fabricated on isolating GaAs-substrate with gasphase grown n-epitaxial layers, is presented. A current source realized by means of a third FET is integrated on the chip and directly coupled to the source contacts of the differential pair. An output risetime below 6ops and a CMRR of 26 db is reached. Switching power is 185 mW."
"Monte Carlo calculations of nonequilibrium electron transport in InP and GaAs short channel field-effect transistors have been performed. The influence upon transistor performance of such transient effects as velocity overshoot is discussed for each material and is compared with the influence of the respective equilibrium velocity-field curves. A two-dimensional method for computing the properties of InP FETs is also discussed. Ranges of channel lengths for which each material can be expected to be superior are discussed."
"The design features of an experimental 6 GHz power transistor are presented. The power performance of the transistor in class A - common emitter, and in class B - common base for a range of inputs, is shown. In class C - common base, the gain and efficiency at 4, 5 and 6 GHz are plotted. The contributing factors to this performance are discussed."
"Emitter ballasting in class C microwave power transistors is shown to cause a sacrifice of output power and collector efficiency. The use of base impedance balasting resulted in the development of an experimental 4 GHz microwave power transistor which is capable of providing 3 watts of output power with a 6.4 dB power gain and a 65% collector efficiency. The experimental data on the collector current dependence of the power gain, and the spatial temperature distribution of the device working in class C and class A operations are presented. General guidelines for designing class C microwave transistors for optimum performance are given."
"Observations of the onset of small scale self-focusing on the NRL laser system are compared with present theories. Qualitative agreement is found between theory and experiment and it is also found that it is possible to derive a “safe” value for growth for small scale self-focusing. The criteria derived from self-focusing considerations alter the systems considerations for maximum output and/or economy from those derived if self-focusing is not considered."
"The electronic nonlinear refractive index in Cs Vapor at 1.06μ is shown to be negative and to consist of two distinct contributions. One of these arises from a two-photon resonance in the susceptibility, and can be made comparable in magnitude to the positive n2 in laser glass. The other term arises from population redistribution between the ground and the first excited state. We present preliminary measurements of self defocusing of a single pulse from a Nd:YAG mode locked laser which are in agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"Measurements of the noise levels at the output of surface and bulk channel charge-coupled devices with three-phase overlapping polysilicon electrodes are presented. New schemes and input circuits for low-noise electrical insertion of the signal charge are discussed. Our measurements indicate that the noise levels due to the intrinsic noise sources (transfer and storage noise) agree with our physical understanding of the device operation. The noise levels due to the extrinsic sources (puiser noise and electrical insertion noise) are above the expected theoretical values."
"Two approaches to design CCD transversal filters using two-level polysilicon gate technology will be described. The design and performance will be compared."
"CCD bandpass transversal filters using overlapping aluminum/polysilicon gate technology have been fabricated and tested. The measured out-of-band rejection was more than 50 db and the dynamic range was greater than 80 db with good linearity using single-phase clocking. This CCD filter performance has been extended to include the matched filter concept. Fifty tap CCD filters matched to complex signal and noise spectra have been fabricated and tested. These filters are intended to replace conventional analog filter amplifiers in scanning sensors. Test results confirm the substantial increase in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) predicted. It was also confirmed that the filters remained matched for a range of scan rates (time-domain scaling) by suitably changing the CCD clock frequency and input pulse width. As noted for the bandpass filter, other parameters compare well with those typical of analog filter performance."
"In this work a quantitative analysis of the low frequency loss mechanisms of the Conductively Connected CCD will be presented. It will be shown that the loss is caused by changes in the shape and height of the implanted potential carrier. The loss is approximately inversely proportional to feature size and directly proportional to oxide thickness. Experimental data on electron beam fabricated devices will be given that shows good agreement with the theoretical calculations. It will be shown that for a 500 Å oxide, usable devices were made with areas as small as 125 μ2 (.2mil2) per bit."
"A circular charge-coupled device structure has been devised. Entrance and exit gates allow a signal to be admitted, recirculated a given number of times, and then examined. In this way a small device permits simulation of very long shift registers (whose length depends on the number of recirculations) without passing the signal through input and output diffusions. Maximum length is limited by transfer efficiency effects and thermal generation, and is greater at low temperature. In a surface mode device clocked at 100 Khz, delays of 8000 transfers (4000 “bits”) have been observed at 77°K. An oscilloscope motion picture demonstrating degradation of an actual circulating signal will be shown. Dependence of observed transfer efficiency on temperature and clock frequency will be discussed."
"A new method has been developed for determining surface charge densities that is based on the dependence with surface charge of the potential of floating field rings in reversed biased planar structures. This method is most attractive for determining charge densities on semiconductor surfaces that are passivated with materials for which it is difficult or impossible to make the standard capacitive measurements. These include the passivants commonly used on power devices, such as glasses and silicon rubber. A feature of the technique is that the surface charge is determined over the depletion region in actual devices after all processing is completed. The experimental technique used is first to measure the floating field ring potential as a function of the applied reverse bias between the anode and cathode. The value of surface charges is obtained by calculating the dependence of the field ring potential on the applied voltage and then varying the surface charge until good agreement between the theoretical and experimental results is obtained."
"The intent of this work was to determine what type of emitter, either arsenic or phosphorus, would yield a superior radiation tolerance. This was accomplished by fabricating devices of each type with thin heavily doped base and collector regions. All devices were irradiated to a neutron fluence of 3 × 1014n/cm2, 1 MEV equivalent. The results of this investigation did not support the hypothesis that arsenic was superior to phosphorus."
"A novel high performance passivated bipolar device has been developed. The structure of this device, called here a “LEC structure” is characterized by low emitter impurity concentration and electrical impurity concentration and electrical barrier in the emitter, which causes superior device performance and productivity. The experimental results agreed with proposed model, and technology of this device were compared with conventional double diffused transistor."
"In anodic aluminum isolation the selective N+ sub collector is replaced by a blanket N+ epi layer. The P+ isolation is replaced by a silicon-etch, aluminum-evap-oration and partial-anodization. The aluminum down in the etched moats is electrically continuous and is partially anodized swelling to fill the moats, but still retaining a core of aluminum which can be used for a ground buss. The aluminum up on the active areas is electrically isolated, not anodized and stripped in a selective-etch leaving a reasonably planar structure. A2I gives higher yields and better performance in less space at lower costs."
"The realization of an ultra low noise Monolithic Linear Integrated Circuits (M.L.I.C) with a 3 dB noise figure at 10 Hz has been made possible by a new isolation technique under low temperature. The major cause of inferior noise performance of a transistor in the M.L.I.C. was found to be due to contaminants or diffusion - induced dislocations associated with high temperature (1250°C) impurity diffusion for an isolation. Elimination of the high temperature isolation process from the wafer processing has been attempted. Thus a new low temperature process, involving forming a porous silicon instead of diffused isolation, has been successfully achieved."
"The general trend in bipolar integrated circuits is to increase circuit speed. Most present high-speed transistor switching circuits are voltage driven; thus device base resistance plays the most important role in limiting circuit speed."
"Power dissipation becomes a limiting factor for large-scale integration. Thus, power must be reduced without degrading circuit performance. Reducing the emitter size and thereby the transistor area enables one to operate a circuit at low power levels without degrading its frequency response. The present state of photolithography, however, sets a lower limit on emitter size, which is approximately 2. 5 × 10 μm. We describe a scheme for fabricating transistors reproducibly with 2.5×2.5 μm emitters with present photolithographic capabilities. This scheme follows conventional processing through base diffusion. However, after base diffusion, the base window is convered with a layer of SiO /SiO2/Si3N4. A 2.5 × 10 μm emitter window is first opened in the Si3N4 layer. A second masking step follows using an emitter pattern of the same size, but rotated 90 degrees to form a cross-pattern. Etching the underlying SiO2 selectively will result in a 2.5×2.5 μm emitter window. As a result of emitter-size reduction, the current level at which fT peaks has been reduced from 5 to 2 mA. The level for maximum current gain has also been reduced, from 1 mA to 100 μA. The collector-base and emitter-base capacitances have been reduced from 0.11 to 0. 06 pF and from 0.1 to 0. 04 pF, respectively."
"The Varian VKX-7799B broadband klystron amplifier described in this paper was developed for use in satellite earth terminals. The 8 kW amplifier features an instantaneous -1 dB channel bandwidth in excess of 180 MHz and is manually tunable across the entire communications band from 7.9 to 8.4 GHz. The unique feature of this tube is a tunable-filter-output resonator which is used to obtain the relatively-wide electronic bandwidth. The new tunable output circuit consists of two coupled cavities. The tuning of the output circuit over the entire operating range is accomplished by means of inductive tuners in the output and filter cavities. No additional adjustment of circuit parameters is required during the tuning. The design concept for the tunable-filter-output resonator and the overall performance of the VKX-7799B are described."
"The klystrons to be described in this paper operate at a fixed frequency of 358.54 MHz. They are designed for 125 kW CW with an efficiency in excess of 50 percent. Four cavities are used resulting in a gain of approximately 50 dB. Design values of operating voltage and microperveance are 41 kV and 0.7, respectively. The klystrons are required to be stable when working into any accelerator VSWR up to 2:1 and at any phase angle. This requires the versatile and rugged output system to be described. An operating efficiency of 57 percent is reported and the highest output power is 160 kW CW at 42.5 kV."
"Summary form only given. A program has been underway at Varian to develop linear beam amplifiers that would provide relatively broadband performance in the pulse power range from 0.5 MW to 1.5 MW. Early efforts resulted in low efficiency. Peak efficiencies varied from 21% to 32% with band edge efficiencies from 15% to 23%. TWT theories have always called for an output circuit with over 20 db gain to provide efficiency. However, in a recent program it has been found that greatly improved efficiency may result from gain of only 6 to 10 db. Theoretical studies of beam-circuit interaction on the large signal computer program have shown that highly efficient operation could be achieved with a \"short\" output stack of cloverleaf cavities. When this short stack is adjusted in length for maximum efficiency, it provides only 6 to 10 db of small signal gain with predicted efficiencies as high as 65%. A short stack Twystron® was built for the LMW level at C-band and it verified the theoretical studies. It provided 1.1 times the efficiency of the standard long stack tube. A short stack Twystron® was designed for the 1 MW level at S-band and provided L5% peak efficiency where previous long stack efforts provided 25%. A short stack intense interaction cloverleaf output section in a newly developed TWT/EIK configuration has been shown to be theoretically advantageous. When the S-band short stack Twystron® was configured this way, the measured efficiency was 51% and under one set of conditions was 59%."
"This paper describes a cavity-by-cavity approach to the calculation of TWT performance, instead of the usual wave interaction method. Space charge forces are calculated from a potential table. The method is fast enough to run on a time-sharing computer. Examples of the kind of information obtainable are given."
"In a traveling wave tube (TWT) loss is usually in the form of an attenuator, or sever, which is designed to absorb the RF power on the circuit but allow the RF power in the beam. This paper discusses additional uses of RF loss to enhance the performance of TWT's. The additional uses include the following: prevention of backward wave oscillation (BWO) in helix derived circuits, suppression of band edge oscillation (BEO) in space harmonic circuits, enhancement of overdrive power conditions in TWTs, reduction in AM-PM distortion and harmonic power in overdrive region and efficiency enhancement for medium gain (i.e., 15 to 20 db) TWT's."
"This paper describes a 5 mask process (6 masks with overlay pyrolytic oxide) for fabricating aluminum-gate n-channel MOS circuits having enhancement and depletion devices, and which can operate from a single +5 volt supply. Two ion-implant steps are used, a high energy boron implant to dope the surface, and a phosphorus implant to make the depletion devices. The boron implant is used to prevent surface inversion on the high resistivity p-type silicon substrate and also to set the threshold of the enhancement devices. Doubly-charged boron (B++) at 210 keV is used to penetrate the 9000 Åthick field oxide. This places the peak of the implanted ion distribution just inside the silicon surface. The performance of MOS/LSI circuits having enhancement and depletion devices made using this process is described."
"In order to obtain enhancement type n-channel MOS transistors in an enhancement-depletion system it is possible to shift the tresbold voltage of the driver transistors to positive values by implanting Boron ions into the channel region of the devices. In this way the advantages of a low bulk doping level are conserved (low parasitic capacitances, low bulk effect ...), while the power dissipation-delay product of the circuits is reduced due to the load which is of the current source type. The Boron implantation changes the uniform doping near the surface and the formulae describing the current-voltage characteristics of the device are altered. we derive adapted formulae starting from the depletion approximation and present an easy way to determine experimentally the parameters governing the current voltage characteristics. For high applied voltages the adapted formulae have the same form as they have for non implanted transistors, but for low voltages, as they are used for low dissipation purposes, a deviation exists, due to the narrowing of the depletion layer as a result of the implantation (See eqs. 6, 9 and 10)."
"An active pulse shaper which can generate time waveforms which are very different from those produced naturally by laser oscillators has been devised. The system, which is in effect an optical shutter with variable transmission, consists of an array of bleachable dye cells. The transmittance of each cell is controlled by gating signals that are standard exponential or gaussian optical pulses. The system is applied to the production of the superexponential pulse waveform required for laser initiated nuclear fusion. It is demonstrated that the pulse intensity I(t) = Io(1-t/T)-a with T = 9.45 ns, a = 15/8 and 0 ≤ t ≤ 9.4 ns, can be approximated to within 10% by a triple dye cell system modulating an incident pulse with a 4 ns time constant. The gating signals are two exponentials; one with 1 ns and other 250 ps time constant; and a 250 ps FWHM gaussian."
"Fast KD*P Pockels cells may be designed such that the electric field distribution within the crystal is non-uniform [1]. In this case, amplitude transmission of the cell becomes a function of transverse spatial coordinates. We present design parameters, predicted performance curves, and certain experimental results for circular aperture KD*P cells, based on specialized, detailed control of V(x,y,t). These cells are intended to serve the following functions: 1. Beam profiling (apodization) 2. Temporal pulse shaping 3. Whole-beam self-focusing compensation. Each of these functions has direct application to the performance of large, high power Nd:glass laser amplifiers, which are currently under intensive development for laser fusion."
 "A Q-switched/mode-locked Nd:YAG laser oscillator employing simultaneous active (electro-optic) and passive (saturable absorber) loss modulation within the optical cavity is described. This “dual modulation” oscillator can produce transform-limited pulses of duration ranging from <;50 psec to >;5 nsec with greatly improved stability compared to other mode-locked systems. The pulses produced by this system lack intrapulse frequency or amplitude modulation, and hence are ideally suited for amplification to high energies and for other applications where well-defined pulses are required."
"The development of a pulsed laser system which generates multiple synchronized output pulses on both a picosecond and nanosecond time scales is described. The system consists of a mode-locked Nd:YAG oscillator-amplifier system and a Q-switched Nd:YAG and Nd:Glass system synchronized by a versatile switching technique. The unique features of this laser include the synchronization of two 200 mJ 30 psec pulses with separation variable between 0 and 10 nsec with a shuttered portion of a Q-switched pulse variable in length from 5 to 30 nsec and with energy in the range of 1 to 10 J."
"From a technical point of view improvements of color picture tube could be regarded as having reached their limits. In this respect we have found that the mask focusing tube can achieve this objective when they are combined with the black matrix technique, the high performance gun, dot screen structure, high matrix transparency and large electrode diameter. Two fold improvements of brightness and contrast have been obtained with two fold mask transparency, 22% higher matrix transparency and mask-focusing. 20-30% less deflection power, 70% less mask doming also have been achieved with 110 degree 36.5 mm neck diameter and 1:2 mask focusing voltage ratio. 20% less spot diameter and sharp beam distribution have been obtained by new multi-stage focusing electron gun and delta arrangement 36.5 mm neck diameter."
"Summary form only given. When the storage surface of a Display Storage Tube is charged positively with respect to the backing electrode, a radically different electron-optic condition exists in the vicinity of the storage surface. This condition, which differs from the normal DST operating condition, permits low-voltage equilibrium writing, provided certain other conditions are met. Work performed under AF contract P-,,6l5-72-C-154, explored this mode of operation in two Westinghouse Direct View Storage tubes of conventional manufacture. The aim of this study was to determine the design changes required to make a Direct View storage tube which, through equilibrium writing, could update stored data continuously. The equilibrium writing process would \"write overt! the existing stored information, thereby refreshing it without having to erase the complete storage surface. Expertmental data, using the electrostatically-deflected WX-'05\" , and a magnetically-deflected WX-,14ll (modified) is given demonstrating successful utilization of equilibrium writing. The performance attainable in contemporary DST's, using the continuous update mode of operation, is assessed. Based upon this evaluation, changes in tube design are discussed, leading to a Direct View Storage tube design having the ability to refresh stored data without the need for erasing old information. The advantages of such a device are enumerated."
"Excellent life performance is being achieved for A.C. plasma display panels through understanding of the causes of voltage changes, surface overcoat material research and adjustment of the manufacturing process to eliminate contaminants. It has been found that surface aging phenomena rather than gas changes, are dominant in many praticai cases. Because of preferential operation patterns (i.e. alpha-numerics) a differential aging pattern may evolve. The differential pattern is the result of voltage changes which are different for heavily operated and lightly or non-operated cells. It is shown that the nature and extent of surface changes are dependent on overcoat material selection and the presence (or non-presence) of contaminants introduced during manufacture."
"Tunnel-injection electroluminescence has been observed in Al-Al2O3-GaAs and Pt-Al2O3-CdS devices formed by vacuum deposition of thin films onto n-type semiconductor crystals. Results show a luminescence voltage threshold comparable to the semiconductor bandgap, and high hole injection efficiency."
"A model is developed for the sweepout of minority carriers under high bias conditions in a HgCdTe semiconductor. The equations for the signal and generation-recombination (g-r) noise are presented under high bias conditions. Results show that, during sweepout, g-r noise is affected differently than is signal. A peak in the signal to noise ratio (SNR) is obtained for an optimum bias across the detector. Solution of the ambipolar transport equation shows that the sweepout of excess carriers causes the peak in SNR. The signal is shown to have the usual 6 db/octave rolloff in the high bias case as it does in the low bias case. The g-r noise at high bias is shown to have a sinc (fTa) rolloff where Ta is twice the effective sweep-out lifetime, as predicted previously(1). The results, modified for a long diffusion length (i.e., LD ≈ 13 μm) alters the equations and thereby eliminates the higher frequency nulls in the sinc (fTa) rolloff for large geometry detectors, whereas the nulls are evident in small geometry detectors. Experimental data on 12-μm HgCdTe detectors is presented and correlated with the theory. Frequency spectra of the g-r noise and signal response from a modulated CO2 laser, a PbSe laser, and a GaAs diode are presented."
"An improved pulsed argon laser has been developed for use in an operational, laser generated, high resolution, multicolor, projection display system. The laser consists of a randomly pulsable ion laser discharge tube, an active pulsing current supply, and a permanently aligned package design which enables rapid and simple replacement of the discharge tube. A transistor switch bank is used to actively control the laser discharge current. Pulse repetition frequencies greater than 250, 000 pps with pulse duties approaching 100% have been demonstrated. Application of the laser to projection display systems is discussed."
"For the first time it has been demonstrated that heavy-ion bombardment of an electrically pulsed He-Ne laser, operating on the 1.15-μ and 3,39-μ transitions in neon, can produce substantial increases in laser output. Previous authors (1-3) have shown that enhanced output from CO2 lasers is also possible. In both cases high-energy charged particles were produced by neutron bombardment of a surface coating of boron-10 or by neutron reactions with 3He gas. These charged particles then slow down in the gas mixture, depositing energy in the lasing gas. As a result, significant increases in laser output are observed compared to operation with electrical pumping alone, even though the nuclear energy input is a small fraction of the total. These results have important implications relative to the goal of direct nuclear pumping of gas lasers and subsequently the development of efficient, high-powered laser systems (4-5)."
"An all-hot copper iodide laser is described which operates at pulse repetition rates up to 18 kHz. Laser emission occurs from the 5106 Å (4p 2P3/2 → 4s2 2D5/2) and 5782 Å (4p 2p1/2 → 492 2D3/2) transitions in atomic copper. Near the optimum pulse repetition rate of 6 kHz, Laser output energies of 60 μJ per pulse were measured in a burst mode from a 2.0 cm3 discharge volume. This corresponds to 0.18 W cm-3 quasi-continuous laser emission from the discharge tube."
"Most existing theories for nonuniformly doped MOS transistors are related to the extreme cases of doped layers which are large or small with respect to the semiconductor surface space-charge layer. The theoretical part of the present paper Introduces a general one-dimensional analytical model, that takes the complete doping profile of the substrate into account and allows the evaluation of the principal characteristics of MOS transistors having a single type net impurity concentration profile. The second part of the paper describes the fabrication technology and presents experimental results for n-channel MGS transistors nonuniformly doped by means of the SILOX technique. The experimental data are compared with calculated results."
"The inclusion of Ge at the Si-SiO2 interface is known (1) to shift the threshold voltage of an N-channel MOST in the positive direction by a controlled amount, changing its operation from the normal depletion to the enhancement mode. The purpose of this paper is to describe the changes in the standard MOS technology which make feasible the manufacture of an enhancement-depletion, N-channel type circuit with a potential for high switching speeds. The results of measurements, carried out to characterize the interface properties of such modified structures, throw some light on the possible nature of this effect."
"This paper discusses the numerical calculation of log nSF (surface electron density) - VG(gate voltage) curves and experiments. By compensating for the distribution tail of the main impurity by the opposite type impurity, the log nSF - VG curves can be shifted in an almost parallel manner. Fabrication of MOSFET with a desired value of residual current is possible by implanting a sufficient amount of phosphorus first, then a second boron layer near the surface."
"As an approach to an advanced LSI logic, a high speed and low power femto-joule logic circuit has been developed by using enhancement type Schottky barrier gate FET (ESBT) with 31P implanted channel layer."
"Typical characteristics of an n-channel, enhancement mode, insulated-gate field effect transistor (IGFET). The drain current is plotted against the drain voltage for different values of the gate voltage. It can be seen from the figure that, after saturation is reached, the drain current increases again as the drain voltage is further increased. This additional current is attributed to the substrate current and can be measured simultaneously in the substrate lead."
"The classical analysis of bipolar transistors relies on the assumption that current flows by drift and diffusion. However, if heavy doping concentrations vary with the position, as occurs in the emitter and the base of bipolar transistors, a mechanism in addition to drift and diffusion gives rise to a flow of mobile carriers. This effect arises from distortion of the quantum density of states and the consequent presence of quasi-electric fields. Incorporation of this distortion in the transport equations lowers β by several orders of magnitude, whereas the intrinsic fT becomes smaller to an extent depending on the profile. Quantitative experimental observations still unexplained by classical bipolar transistor physics, can be understood on the basis of these generalized transport equations."
"Lateral PNP transistors have been applied in integrated circuits for quite some time. Yet device performance understanding has lacked due to geometrical complexity and thus did not allow device design optimization. This paper solves the problem for a lateral PNP transistor with buried layer, substrate and isolation diffusion by means of a two-dimensional numerical simulation under steady state conditions. Under all injection levels the results pertaining to a particular example show: emitter injection and collector collection performance; the developement of a carrier storage underneath the emitter reaching the buried layer onset; the influence of the buried layer with respect to vertical substrate transistor action and the onset of lateral substrate transistor current flow."
"A time dependent circuit model of an NPN-N transistor is described for the simulation of the quasi-saturation region. A Current Induced Base factor is defined from an injection level model of the N- collector and used to modify the static and dynamic properties of a basic Ebers-Moll model. Curve tracer and time dependent, turn-on characteristics are used to demonstrate the effect of the CIB factor."
"A simple and precise way of establishing heat flow models is first described, which enables the static temperature distribution in the active region of semiconductor power devices to be determined. Secondly, for a precise device, coupling of the thermal model to a suitable distributed electric model of the active region allows, by a numerical iterative process, the complete simulation of both electrical and thermal aspects of device behaviour, including possible instabilities. This approach for the study of interactive mechanisms in power devices is illustrated by some examples of particular interest."
"The space-charge-limited (SCL) transistor, as described in previous publications, consists of high-low and asymmetric junctions formed by diffusing n and p type impurities into a nearly intrinsic silicon substrate. These junctions are “intrinsic” since one side of them is nearly intrinsic with an extrinsic Debye length (LD) in the range of 10 μm on the low-doped side. Previous publications on high-low and asymmetric junctions are either Incomplete or not applicable to intrinsic junctions because they are based on the depletion and charge neutrality approximations of the bipolar theory."
"Amplifying Gate Thyristors are thyristors with an auxiliary thyristor integrated between the gate and main thyristor in order to enhance uniformity of turn-on and, hence, di/dt capability. In order to obtain the full benefits of enhanced di/dt capability, thyristors should be designed to turn on at the auxiliary thyristor, rather than the main thyristor in all the following conditions: 1) gate turn-on, 2) dv/dt triggering, and 3) forward blocking voltage breakover. Further, proper turn-on for the latter two conditions should occur for an external gate to cathode impedance that may be experienced in application. We have established models for calculating the maximum potential of both the auxiliary and main thyristors as a function of device design parameters, including topological geometries, resistivities of the various regions, junction depths and basewidths. A computer program was designed for determining the current distributions and potentials as a function of external gate to cathode impedance."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a 3 00 W average, X-band travelling wave tube. The beam is formed with a shadow gridded gun and focused with periodic permanent magnets. Although designed for a narrow-band radar application, peak power of over 3 KW is obtained over the band 7 to 11 GHz. A peak power level of over 4 KW is obtained with optimum adjustment. Gain at saturated output power varies from over 60 db at 7 GHz to 48 db at 11 GHz. Basic efficiency over 20% and depressed collector efficiency of 3 0% is achieved. Excellent stability against oscillation is achieved at all power levels. This is obtained by the use of a fastwave backward wave oscillation suppression technique. The rf design, including oscillation suppression, was carried out with the aid of a large signal computer simulation program. Thermal design includes a special helix support technique which provides high thermal conductivity with minimum dielectric loading of the slow wave structure. Prototype tubes were operated in air cooled ebullient packages, however the high efficiency of this tube would allow cooling by conduction to a base plate."
"Summary form only given. In designing a unifilar helix traveling wave tube for high peak output power a major constraint has been the necessity for keeping the beam current and voltage below the point at which backward wave oscillations occur. This has made it very difficult to design for more than a few kilowatts peak output power. Two different forms of helix backward wave oscillation suppression have been developed which have made it practical to build stable tubes providing tens of kilowatts of output power over octave frequency bands. Results obtained with both types of BWO suppression are presented and the relative merits of both designs is discussed. One of the designs utilizes a frequency selective and dissipative filter coupled to the helix. This combination has a low pass characteristic which provides a high attenuation at the backward wave oscillation frequencies and minimum loss in the operating band. Backward wave oscillation starting currents have been increased by a factor of 3, in transparent TWTts, with small signal gain greater than 16 db, using the filter. Stable S-band and X-band TWT's have been tested to over 20 kilowatts across octave frequency bands with electron beams of 20 KV and 4 amperes. The size of the filters has restricted their utilization to solenoid focused TWTts. The second method of BWO suppression utilizes a helix velocity step carefully designed so that on one section of the helix the backward wave space harmonic interacts with the fast space charge wave of the beam to effectively cancel the normal BWO interaction which occurs on the other section of the helix. While considerably more complicated to design, this approach has been used successfully to achieve BWO stability on several high peak power helix traveling wave tubes including some PPM focused types. The most noteworthy example has been a high gain experimental tube operating at 31 KV and 10 amperes and delivering 30 to 65 kilowatts of peak output power from 600 to 1200 MHz. Advantages and disadvantages of both designs are discussed and test data obtained on several TWTts in which they are used, are presented. It is predicted that the unifilar helix traveling wave tube now must be considered a viable design for any peak power output up through 25 kilowatts, particularly when a wide frequency band is desired."
"The effects of various dielectric rod cross-sectional profiles on helix velocity dispersion are compared in conjunction with their impact on tube operation. Using these techniques, an 8 to 18 GHz low noise TWT demonstrating excellent gain flatness, good overdrive and harmonic separation has been developed. Detailed design and performance data for this TWT is presented. Electrical and mechanical considerations affecting the use of radial backwall vanes are also detailed. Major design details and performance capabilities of a 1 kW, 2 to 7 GHz, high power pulse TWT are presented asan example of the use of radial vane loading."
"A wideband PPM-focused coupled cavity tube for Ku-band has been developed that operates over a 43 percent bandwidth. Previous wideband coupled cavity tubes have bandwidths of up to about 30%. Increased cold bandwidth is achieved by eliminating the stop-band between fundamental and next higher mode (\"slot\" mode) so that the two adjacent modes are coalescent. In addition, the beam hole and ferrule diameter are chosen to be relatively small. The tube provides internal gain equalization with staggered bandwidths of the four gain sections and with frequency selective loss. Small signal gain is about 40 dB with maximum gain variations of less than 15 dB over the bandwidth. Without the internal gain equalization design the gain variation would have been on the order of 40 dB. The tube uses double period permanent magnet focusing with Alnico 8 magnets. The gun has a non-intercepting grid."
"Summary form only given. Described is a new TWT designed for use in satellite-communications earth stations. This tube delivers more than two kilowatts of carrier power in the 14 to 14.5-GHZ band, with a gain of 32 dB. Because of the high power level and the relatively narrow band (only 3.5% of the center frequency), a \"coupled-cavity\" slow-wave structure is used. Reducing the pitch of the slow-wave structure on the RF-output side enables obtaining an interaction efficiency of approximately 25%. With a \"depressed\" collector the overall efficiency exceeds 35%. The internal loads, under vacuum, are made up of siliconcarbide attenuators, brazed to copper. Tests have shown that they can dissipate up to 500 watts. This tube is fully forced-air cooled, with only one blower. The results of two computer programs, one for small-signal operation and one for large-signal operation, are compared to actual measurements made on the TWT."
"This paper describes a 5.0 kW communication traveling-wave tube and the results achieved by broadband power combining two of these TWTs. The 5.0 kW TWT, Model 792H, was developed by Hughes Aircraft EDD for Philco-Ford WDL under the sponsorship of USASATCOMA for use in the AN/FSC-78V ground terminal. Two of these high power tubes operating with output powers of 3.7 kW have been power combined to produce up to 7.0 kW with a bandwidth in excess of 400 MHz at the one dB points. This combined power output was achieved with gain variations less than ±0.30 dB over any 125 MHz band. This type of performance is possible because of the TWT's low amplitude and phase distortion characteristics. The 792H produces 5.0 kW of RF power across a 500 MHz band from 7.9 to 8.4 GHz with 35 dB of gain. The amplitude gain variations of the tube at both rated and small signal are less than ±0.30 dB over the entire 500 MHz band. These tube characteristics were achieved by special internal tube design techniques and the use of an integral equalizer."
"An X-band, PPM-focused TWT equipped with a 4-stage tilted electric field (TEF) collector has been developed. The collector magnetic field is produced by a single samarium-cobalt magnet. The collector-dissipation reduction factor, which is used to evaluate the performance of a depressed collector, is estimated as 0.14. As the result, an efficiency improvement from 11.8% (base-tube efficiency) to 43% has been achieved at the saturated output power of 22 W at 12 GHz."
"In Integrated Injection Logic it is desirable to separate the base regions of the common emitter inverse npn transistors from each other. An n+-diffusion isolation or oxide isolation minimizes the loss in gain due to hole currents from the base to the emitter. We analyzed the case of n+ isolation with different unicollector structures of different geometries. Experimental results are presented based on the following comparison; A: no n+ isolation; B: shallow n+ isolation and C: deep n+ isolation."
"An X-Band radar receiver protector has been developed based on the principle of multipacting. The protector (referred to as a multipactor) is a T-R (transmit-receiver) power absorbing limiter capable of limiting 50 kW peak RF power (3 kW average) to 5 watts. The multipactor exhibits spike leakage energy of less than 0.2 ergs, a recovery time of less than 1.0 nano seconds and passive insertion loss of less than 0.7 dB. Following the multipactor limiter is a solid state limiter which reduces the output RF power of the multipactor down to approximately 50 milliwatts."
"The development of an experimental Electron Beam Addressed Memory (EBAM) module is described. The module is limited to 65,536 address locations, but its development verifies that tubes of approximately 4 × 106 bits can now be made. The key factors that lead to a practical, stable device are discussed. Emphasis is given to the development of the storage target and its mode of use. The paper shows how a simple refresh technique is used to retain information, provide a nondestructive readout capability, and achieve long-term address stability."
"This paper describes a simple crossed electric and magnetic field electron deflection system for use as a high speed demultiplexer for the output of a dynamic crossed-field photomultiplier. Theoretical and experimental results are presented."
"Near carrier amplitude and phase noise modulations have been measured for low noise (receiving type) and medium power (20 w) TWT amplifiers at 6 GHz. The measured noise is greater than predicted by the noise figure measured 30 MHz from the carrier. Below 20 kHz, at least part of the excess can be accounted for by phase modulation products coherent with the power line frequency."
"This paper discusses design considerations for short-channel ion-implanted MOSFET devices with relatively deep junctions. Four device parameters are considered: threshold and transconductance reduction, sub-threshold turn-on, and punch-through. Channel-length variations affect power and performance tolerances of enhancement/ depletion logic NOR gates in two ways: first, down-level current is inversely proportional to channel length; second, short-channel physical effects cause variations in transconductance and threshold voltage. It will be demonstrated that threshold and transconductance variations in short-channel devices tend to offset one another so their net contributions to tolerances on such circuit parameters as switching speed, down-level power and down-level voltage are negligible. Dual-energy ion implantation is used in the channel regions - a shallow implant to control threshold voltage, and a deep implant to control punch-through voltage. Hence high-resistivity (15 ohm-cm) substrates can be used to reduce junction capacitance. These implants are shown to have little effect on short-channel properties other than punch-through because the doses are low. Low channel doping and the relatively deep junctions contribute to a desirable, steep device turn-on characteristic. We concluded that short-channel effects do not have to be avoided in the design of small MOSFET devices. Using ion implantation and careful design, circuit tolerances can be maintained allowing parameters such as junction depth to be optimized for other criteria such as metallurgy compatibility."
"A Scanning Low Energy Electron Probe (SLEEP), which has a spatial resolution of 3ε and an energy resolution of 50 mV near zero energy has been used in conjuntion with a cylindrical Auger Electron Spectrometer (AES) to study several surface properties of solid state devices and materials. The resistivity (ρ), dielectric constant (K), and dielectric strength of thin insulating layers (e.g., Al2O3) have been measured with SLEEP. AES has been used with inert gas sputtering to study the depth profile of ion implanted Aland Na in Si and SiO2 and have been compared with other profiling techniques using identical samples. Surface potential variations of vacuum deposited metallic coatings on an integrated circuit using SLEEP has been correlated with surface impurities measured in situ with AES. In addition, examples will be given illustrating how the SLEEP technique can be used in an SEM mode for measuring secondary electron emission properties as well as for observing the location of defects in integrated circuits."
"Summary form only given. Doping profile measurements in mm wave double drift silicon IMPATT diodes are described. The diodes were fabricated in thin lightly doped P- epitaxial films deposited on P+ boron doped silicon substrates by ion implantation. The applications and limitations of the Spreading Resistance and Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy for doping analysis of very thin structures are discussed. It is shown that by a suitable combination of the two techniques in a complementary fashion one may characterize the doping in a device such as double drift IMPATT diode. The proposed method gives quantitative and rapid information useful for device modeling and as a control in device processing and material selection."
"Titanium dioxide capacitors were fabricated on silicon wafers using electron-beam evaporation. The titanium dioxide (TiO2) films on the silicon wafers were annealed in oxygen at 900° C to assure conversion of the films to the rutile phase. For long anneal times with thin films, significant silicon dioxide (SiO2) grows under the TiO2 as a result of oxygen diffusion through the TiO2 film. Good quality TiO2 films were obtained in the thickness range of 500 Å to 10,000 Å. Aluminum electrodes were evaporated on the TiO2 to complete the capacitors. Capacitive densities of greater than 2 pf/sq. mil with a leakage current of less than 2 nanoamps/sq. mil were obtained. Longer anneal times result in a trade off of lower capacitance with less leakage and higher breakdown voltages due to the influence of the SiO2 layer."
"A unique three-terminal device, consisting of a threshold-type chalcogenide glass as emitter and crystalline Si as base and collector, has been fabricated and investigated. If the amorphous semiconductor is in the off state, all terminal-to-terminal impedances are high and the current gain is less than unity. However, when the glass is switched into the on state, ordinary transistor operation is obtained with net small-signal gains of 3-5. A lock-on phenomenon is also observed in which the device remains in the high-gain state after the base switching pulse is removed. The several modes of operation can be explained in terms of band models previously proposed for chalcogenide-glass/Si heterojunctions. An additional implication of the observed characteristics is the predominance of electrons in the on state of the glass, in direct contrast to the low-field behavior. Potential applications of the device will be discussed."
"Insulated-gate field-effect-transistor structures , prepared with thin films of lead sulfide as the semiconductor and aluminum oxide as the gate insulator, exhibit greatly improved stability with regard to carrier-trapping effects as compared with other thin-film transistors (TFTs) such as those made of cadmium selenide. The devices are prepared in a series of additive evaporation steps (through stencil masks) in a single pumpdown of the vacuum system. They are n-type but exhibit field-effect inversion to p-type. They are generally enhancement devices but can also be prepared as depletion devices by increasing the time and temperature of the postdeposition anneal. The carrier mobility is of the order of 10 cm2/V-sec, and the carrier concentration is approximately 3 × 1017/cm3."
"1200 Å thick layers have been grown on n-GaAs by slowing evaporating Al though a low pressure of O2. The resulting interface state density N35 was measured around 1012 cm-2 (eV)-1, i.e about 5 times smaller than those of native oxides on GaAs. N35 and the charge capture time are given across some parts of the energy gap near the flat-band level and N35 shows a peak near the conduction band. The flat-band voltage is + 0.l Volt. which indicates an immobile charge density of 6 × 10 cm-2. Very slow traps show a similar density."
"The molecular beam epitaxy technique has been used to prepare IMPATT and mixer diodes with GaAs. Precise doping profile control is achieved by the use of carefully controlled beams of Sn, Si or Ge and an understanding of the doping profiles resulting from a given beam intensity-time profile. Planar isolation is achieved because it is possible to grow semi-insulating poly-crystalline material on an amorphous coating on a substrate while simultaneously growing high quality doped single crystalline material on the substrate exposed through windows in the amorphous coating. Large area (2 cm × 2 cm) layers and layers consisting of semi-insulating areas containing isolated devices have been grown."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This month Computer focuses on the important issues relating multiple-valued logic and computer science in this part of the twentieth century. This issue is aimed at those computer engineers and scientists who are not experts in the area of multiple-valued logic in engineering and computer science, and its primary goal is to convince these people that multiple-valued logic is indeed both practically applicable and intellectually challenging."
"Computer scientists are familiar with options in which there are no middle choices between true and false. The lack of such choices is inconvenient — even critical — for example, when determining whether the status of a computer system is go or no-go. Multiple-valued logic is concerned with these intermediate choices."
"In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
"We live in a binary world of computers, accepting the inevitability of dealing with strings of O's and l's, simply because this is dictated by the two-valued nature of switching primitives which make up the machines. Yet there is little doubt that most of us would prefer decimal machines if they were available. Present technology is unlikely to result in such machines in the near future, at least not the kind where basic building blocks are inherently 10-valued. However, this does not mean that the binary approach must continue to be the only alternative. Considerable advantages may be gained by considering higher-radix systems, even if decimal schemes are presently out of reach."
"By means of multistable states in semiconductor junction devices treated in this paper, it is demonstrated both theoretically and experimentally that it is feasible to fabricate discrete and integrated circuits with a variable number of stable states. With negative resistance interactions, additional stable states may be realized, leading to integrated circuits with radices higher than binary. Several independent physical phenomena in unipolar and bipolar semiconductor pn junction devices and integrated structures lead to voltage and current-controlled negative resistance without the use of external feedback. These include avalanche breakdown, quantum mechanical tunneling, and minority carrier storage. Two complementary types of negative resistances may be utilized as a basis for generating multistable energy levels."
"This paper will discuss combinatorial uniform shift networks that can shift a binary word a variable number of bit positions. Typical arithmetic applications are for prenormalization or alignment of one of the mantissas in floating point addition, postnormalization of the mantissa in any normalized floating point operation, or for one or more bits of shifting in multiply and divide. Other applications include • packing and unpacking of fields stored in memory either within the processor itself or as part of a separate unit between the processor and the memory (such a unit, called a \"field isolation unit,\" is described by DeSantis, et al1); • isolation of fields of a word in the instruction decoding and break-apart done during emulation of various machines; and • variable-length routing of words between all processors in an array computer by transposing the processor/data word matrix, shifting by the routing distance, and transposing the resultant data word/processor matrix back, as described by Semmelhaack.2"
"History has it that Ivan the Terrible commanded two of his Imperial Guard to step off a precipice in order to demonstrate how unquestioningly obedient his subjects were."
   "Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
"Advertisement."
 "Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Advertisement."
"Man's instinct to gamble is at least as old as government's need for funds. So it should come as no surprise that government has learned to regard gambling as a source of revenue, whether through direct taxation or through government-run gambling establishments. In the US recently, changing moral attitudes towards gambling as well as increasingly desperate local financing needs, have produced a surge of interest in legalized gambling. Added to these factors has been the belief that legalizing gambling is one way to fight organized crime."
"Horse racing and breeding is an old European tradition that came to the United States with the early colonists. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Andrew Jackson — all land owners — participated in the breeding and racing of horses. Although bets were made, it was the race that was most important. This changed with the coming of the bookmakers."
"In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
"While legal off-track betting in North America has only been active since April 1970 (in New York), it has been available to Australians since 1966, following the installation of telephone betting in the state of Victoria."
"The complexity of digital computers and their large scale use have led some researchers to investigate tools not commonly used. In recent years, applications of graph theory to computers as well as other fields of study have given fruitful results and have attracted more and more scientists. The attempt here will be to review previous accomplishments on a fundamental level and to stimulate the reader to investigate an area where valuable work is being performed."
"Advertisement."
"An interactive computer environment is one which attempts to facilitate the interplay between man and machine in pursuit of a goal defined by man. Presumably, to be effective, this environment should allow the calculating speed, precision, and structured logical/iterative skill of the machine to serve the conceptual, intuitive, highly associative, and contexturally sensitive attributes of human mental function in the solution of problems. Too often the match is obtuse, the goals vague, and the result frustration. Much emphasis ought to be placed on the a priori specific problem oriented knowledge, gained through experience, which the man brings to the machine and wishes to share with it in a versatile but structured way."
"With the sudden upsurge of activity in structured programming and related disciplines, this year's Lake Arrowhead Workshop filled a need to bring together leaders in the field to share their experiences and help shape the future. The workshop, sponsored annually by the Western Area Committee of the IEEE Computer Society and chaired this year by William F. Ross of Hughes Aircraft Company, was divided into four sessions."
"The newly organized Technical Committee on Mass Storage held its first Workshop in Washington, D.C., May 22–23. The objective of the Workshop was to bring together professionals, not only in the area of mass store technology, but also those who have been involved with the use or systems design of such devices. Since the operation of a mass storage system requires a significant interaction with the user's organization and procedures, the interaction of these three viewpoints proved key to the success of the Workshop. For purposes of the Workshop, mass storage referred to devices with capacity in the order of 1012 bits. Some attention was given to technologies which yield smaller capacities in order to assess their prospects for growth."
   "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
 "Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
  "Dynamic memory management is an important advance in memory allocation, especially in virtual memory systems. In this paper we consider the case of paged memory systems — i.e., systems whose physical and logical address space is partitioned into equal sized blocks of contiguous addresses. Paged memories have been used by many computer systems. However, the relationships among page fault frequency (the frequency of those instances at which an executing program requires a page of data or instructions not in main memory), efficiency, and space-time product with various replacement algorithms and page sizes are still not sufficiently understood and are of considerable interest."
"Speed advances were provided in the third generation of computers. Since then, an order-of-magnitude improvement in speed has been achieved in logic circuitry. A high-speed parallel arithmetic unit can perform a complete operation in 80 nanoseconds; main memory, with the help of high speed buffers, can produce operands or instructions in 80 nanoseconds. Why should the arithmetic unit have to wait for several cycles before it gets each instruction and the operands for it? To improve this situation, lookahead control was developed and performs these functions: • fetches instructions in advance continuously; • validates each instruction as encountered; • obtains operand addresses and operands for preprocessed instructions; • prepares for the alternatives of branching."
"Computer science is a field of study in which the experimental and pragmatic aspects, while initially slighted in some curricula, are becoming recognized as playing an increasingly important role. This trend has undoubtedly been hastened by the reductions in hardware costs seen in recent years. As a result, a great many computer science departments in schools across the country are beginning to examine their own needs for computing facilities and other resources not likely to be available from a school's production computing facility."
"It's no secret that customers frequently complain about programming manuals. In annual meetings, around the office coffee machine, in comp centers neath the abend's red glare — one can hear the people who depend on software documentation raising agonized cries. The problems that can be found in manuals are many, and familiar: minor irritants like Ted Mack spelling, blunders like lost table headings or illegible printing, yellow-brown fogs of vagueness, absent examples, missing information, even the deadly sin of downright factual mistakes — all these flaws are not uncommon."
"Micro 7, the Seventh Annual Workshop on Microprogramming, was held September 29-October 2 in Palo Alto under the cosponsorship of the Computer Society and the ACM Special Interest Group on Microprogramming. Workshop highlights included two tutorials — one by J. Michael Galey of IBM on microprogramming fundamentals, and another at a more advanced level by Earl Riegel of Burroughs — a special international session chaired by Heinz Trauboth of Karlsruhe, and a much-applauded overview paper, “LSI Microprocessors and Microprograms for User-Oriented Machines,” by Imsong Lee of UC Berkeley."
"The Second Computer Applications Workshop on “On-Line Computer Applications,” convened on April 17, 1974, was aimed at exchanging experiences with computerized data acquisition and control systems on-line to various processes."
  "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
 "Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
 "Advertisement."
"AHPL (A Hardware-Programming language) is a hardware description language based on the notational conventions of APL. AHPL makes use of only those APL operations which can be readily interpreted as hardware primitives. A few special conventions have been added to AHPL to represent unique hardware capabilities such as parallel control sequences and asynchronous and conditional transfers. No attempt will be made in this short article to list every feature of AHPL. A complete description of the language may be found in Reference 1. Our purpose here will be to present the underlying philosophy of AHPL and to illustrate its usefulness as a design tool."
"CDL, or Computer Design (description) Language, was first reported by the author in 1965. Since then, there have been some changes and many versions of simulators for different computer systems. The language was created to bridge the gap between hardware and software designers. As such, it describes the computer elements and hardware algorithms at a level just above that of the electronics; this is the level commonly called the register transfer level."
"If “hardware” consists of transistors, integrated circuits, solder, copper, glass epoxy board, etc., then anything placed on paper to describe hardware is a model. A great variety of models have been and continue to be used for a variety of purposes. We analyze models; we synthesize models; we communicate with others and computing machines via models. Some models such as circuit schematics, mechanical drawings, printed circuit art work, wiring lists, etc., are very explicit and offer the great detail necessary to fabricate hardware. They may reveal what the hardware looks like, but the organization, operation, and function of the hardware are difficult to determine from such models because of their volume and because they do not attempt to clearly reveal such things."
"The ISP (instruction Set Processor) notation was developed1 to precisely describe the programming level of a computer. The behavior of a processor is determined by the nature and sequence of its operations. This sequence is given by a set of bits in primary memory (a program) and a set of interpretation rules (usually in the central processor). Thus, if we specify the nature of the operations and the rules of interpretation, the actual behavior of the processor depends on the initial conditions and the particular program."
"The PMS (Processors, Memories, and Switches) notation was developed to describe the physical structure of parts of computers, computer parts, and computer networks in terms of a small number of elementary components.1 A primary aim was to give a uniform meaning and definition to components to facilitate better communication among professionals. PMS has been used pedagogically to focus analysis on certain structures; it has been used at lower system levels to describe register transfer and switching circuits structures; and it has been the basis of a computer-implemented data base and analysis language."
"A digital system can be described at several levels. 1) The highest level is the algorithmic level which specifies only the algorithm to be used for solving a design problem. 2) The second level is the PMS (Processor, Memory, Switch) level which describes a system by processors, memory components, peripheral units, and switching networks. 3) The instruction level describes the instructions of a computer. 4) The register transfer or microinstruction level describes operations among registers. 5) The logic level expresses network in terms of gates and flip-flops. 6) The lowest level is the circuit level which implements gates and flip-flops by circuit elements such as transistors, resistors, etc."
"This series of articles - prepared by eight authors from six countries - surveys the status of computer hardware description languages in Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Germany and Great Britain."
"In Canada, interest in hardware description languages (HDLs) has been mainly centered in the universities, and their principal use has been to help the teaching of computer architecture courses. Working compiler/simulator installations are located at Waterloo, Ecole Polytechnique (Montreal), Toronto, and New Brunswick; in each case the system is for Professor Chu's CDL running on IBM/360. Other universities with different computers such as Universite de Montreal, SGWU, and Carleton lack simulators but still make use of HDLs as descriptive vehicles in their courses."
"Most French manufacturers have been using computer languages to describe logic circuits and microprograms and to simulate them in order to check out computer designs. Several languages have been developed at the Compagnie des Machines Bull1 and at the Compagnie C.A.E.2 More recently, the Compagnie Telemecanique Electrique has developed a macrolanguage for describing and generating microprogram sequences. This microprogram macroassembler is coupled with a simulation module which allows the designers to check out microprograms. Such tools have also been developed by other companies such as Intertechnique (to allow its users to design their own microprograms on the MULTI 8), by the Honeywell Bull Company, and by the CII. At the same time, more ambitious languages have been developed: CASSANDRE at Grenoble University and CRISSMASS at the SEMA Company. CASSANDRE has been implemented at several universities (Berlin University, Pisa University, Weismann Institute). There are about twelve users now in France. This paper introduces briefly the languages used at the CII and on CASSANDRE."
"Technische Hochschule Darmstadt Beginning in 1968, the author and his coworkers designed a register transfer language in three versions: RTS I, RTS II, and RTS III. Based on the work of Reed, Schlaeppi, Chu, and Duley, these versions have been used to describe behavior and structure of digital systems in courses on switching circuits and computer organization."
"A common interest in languages that describe logic hardware has arisen when some universities and industries faced the problem of logic circuit design. The approaches they have taken to the problem, however, have been very different. The interest on the part of universities, as well as that of the research institutes, was stimulated when many aspects of logic design problems remained unexplored and offered ample opportunity for original research. During this phase industries were generally absent; their interest was aroused only when the problem became a question of development and production — that is, when it became evident that it was convenient to utilize automatic procedures for the development phase of a given logic design. This happened for two reasons: the quantity of logic circuits to be produced became large, and the cost and lack of flexibility of manpower increased — especially during the most repetitive and boring phases of the process such as testing of boards, documentation, etc."
"Many design automation systems have been widely used for developing computers; however, the scope of their application is limited to the areas such as generating wiring lists, printed card board patterns, LSI mask patterns, or test patterns for checking out logic and component faults. It has been difficult to develop an automatic design system for computer architecture, essentially because that area involves a good deal of creative work. Thus, practical designers in Japan are addressing themselves to developing a total computer-aided design system with description languages and simulators required for necessary design levels and a data base system to support them."
"The use of hardware description languages in British industries and universities is presented here, including both linguistic and graphical forms of representation."
"The Second Annual Workshop on Computer Hardware Description Languages sponsored by the German chapters of the IEEE Computer Society and ACM was held in Darmstadt, Federal Republic of Germany, from July 31 to August 2, 1974. Addressing the task begun at the first workshop held at Rutgers University a year ago, this workshop continued the effort to establish a digitial system description language. Whereas the first workshop focused primarily on experience with a given language, this workship featured comparisons of different languages."
   "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
 "Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The May/June 1972 issue of COMPUTER was devoted to the subject of design automation. As with other technologies, the ensuing 18 months have provided ample opportunity for change — enough, in fact, to justify a sequel. Below, guest editor Art Collmeyer introduces this month's issue, which presents a collection of papers providing further insight into the construction and application of design automation systems."
"Developments in packaging reflect the fact that manufacturing economies are related to the level of integration achieved on electronic assemblies. Limiting the natural trend to build large, complex, highly-integrated assemblies is the corresponding drop in production yield. In recent years, however, yields for complex assemblies both in semiconductor chips and printed circuit boards have risen substantially. The effect has been to produce electronic assemblies whose complexities have placed new emphasis and new demands on testing. Traditional approaches to the problems of test and repair have, for the most part, been abandoned in favor of more manageable, cost-effective approaches. This paper describes the techniques and test system developed by Xerox for its large digital modules, beginning with a discussion of the issues peculiar to the test and repair of such modules."
"Without sophisticated design automation techniques, the increasing complexity of custom MOS circuits requires long design cycles and large investments. Usually only a few parts of each type of custom MOS circuit are required, and the design cost becomes a significant portion of the cost of the manufactured parts. These facts prohibit many companies from using custom MOS circuits in their products. Design automation applied to custom MOS circuit design significantly lowers the total design cost by shortening the design cycle, reducing labor, and allowing error free designs to be produced before being manufactured. This makes possible the use of custom MOS circuits, even when only a few parts are required."
"In the days when one man could design a device, build it, and sell it, his own memory was all that was needed to provide instructions and specifications for manufacture. However, as organizations grow, a hierarchy develops from engineer to draftsman to production worker. The draftsman transforms the engineer's rough ideas and sketches into a standardized design document that can be understood by people who have never talked to the engineer and cannot concern themselves with the origin of their product."
"The forces of LSI are poised for a revolution in data processing. Fabrication capabilities are at the level of a microprocessor on a chip. Processor chips with 750 to 1,000 gates per chip in 4-bit and 8-bit data paths are in production in significant quantities, as are 1K-bit memory chips, with 4K-bit chips becoming available. What are the implications? In what directions will the technology and design advance? These were the questions studied in a workshop conducted by the Computer Society's Computer-Elements Committee last June in Vail, Colorado."
"In the folklore of computer architecture there has been much speculation about the effectiveness of various machines in performing various computations. While it is easy to design a machine (or part of a machine) and study its effectiveness on this algorithm or that, it is rather difficult to make general effectiveness statements about classes of algorithms and machines. We are attempting to move in this direction, and this paper contains experimental measurements of a rather wide class of algorithms. Such measurements should be helpful in establishing some parameters of machine organization."
"The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
   "Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "A computer system including related peripherals, integrated as part of a network of one form or another, is becoming more and more a standard configuration being implemented by system designers today. Made possible through advances in communication technology and network concepts, these new configurations of telecommunications networks vary from simple arrangements of a minicomputer plus a few remote interactive terminals to complex arrangements involving minicomputers slaved to very large computers."
"Recent papers in this and other publications have addressed the current status of computer networks in some detail43, 14, 49, 11. This paper is intended to provide complementary material by updating portions of previous works concerned with the telecommunications aspects of computer networks. This is a notably difficult task for several reasons, including common carrier competition, the immaturity of the technology, and a very complicated and dynamic regulatory situation. Nonetheless we shall attempt to delve into those aspects of the current telecommunications scene likely to be of major significance to common carriers, users, service and equipment vendors, and people just generally interested in the evolution of computer networking."
"Data security is the protection of data against unauthorized disclosure, modification, restriction, or destruction. Recognition1 that data in a computer system must be protected was a development brought on by three factors which caused a significant increase in the vulnerability of computer systems."
"Effective communication of data among computer centers and remote terminals is essential to maximum utilization of current data processing resources. However, there are significant compatibility problems to be solved due to the broad differences inherent in existing ADP and communications systems and equipment. Steps are being taken to solve these problems by identifying and developing uniform standards and practices to satisfy the needs of specific, and in some cases general, communities of interest. A number of organizations, including professional societies, trade associations, government agencies at both the Federal and state levels, and national and international standards bodies, are involved in these activities. A review of the working relationships among these organizations, their current efforts, and some 50 existing standards pertaining to data communications should be of interest to everyone concerned with information processing and communications."
"Several recent and proposed computer systems have employed parallel and pipelined architectures to increase instruction execution rate, or throughput. These vary from the giant ILLIAC IV1 with its large number of processing elements constrained to perform nearly identical computations in unison (single instruction stream-multiple data stream9) to the Carnegie-Mellon C. mmp system2 employing a number of independent minicomputers with shared memory (multiple instruction stream-multiple data stream). On the other hand, pipelining has been used in numerous' large computers, such as the Control Data 6600, 7600, and STAR, the IBM System 360/91 and 360/195, and the Texas Instruments ASC, to improve throughput. These systems generally employ single instruction stream-single data stream processing, although some machines in this category also have “vector” instructions that operate on multiple data streams."
   "Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Recent advances in solid-state technology coupled with marked decreases in the cost of hardware have provided the impetus to reexamine computer architectures. The von Neuman computer and other early stored-program computers were constrained to single data-stream/single-instruction-stream sequential organization primarily because of economic considerations (flip flops were of the order of $100 each). Today, however, with flip flops priced under $0.25 each, hardware costs are rapidly approaching the point where both horizontally distributed (array structures) and vertically distributed (hierarchical structures) information processing architectures are not only feasible, but economically practical."
"The character, scope, and economics of computer systems have dynamically evolved into a wide variety of architectures throughout the history of computing. The present evolutionary movement of computer system architecture development is a rapid growth toward functionally distributing computer power. It therefore seems appropriate to review. recent developments in distributed-function architecture."
"In the 1960's enormous progress was made in the automated design of computer systems.1 the modeling of parallel compulations.2,3 and the simulation and evaluation of performance of computer systems.4 With the advent of multiprocessor systems, computer networks, and distributed-function architecture, additional problems are now encountered. for example, the design of computer systems cannot be restricted to a von Neumann type of architecture. A means of describing the possible concurrency between units in the system must be found either through some new language developments or through some innovative model methodology. Modeling of parallel computations cannot be restricted to the design of asynchronous structures on one hand, and the behavior of algorithms on the other hand. but should encompass simultaneouly all of the modules of a system. hardware as well as software. In particular orderly interprocess communications and sharing of resources have to be taken into account. Techniques to represent extant or projected systems at different levels of detail. to simulate them under various configurations. and to analyze them for correctness have to be further developed. Stochastic predictions of performance have to graduate from single to multiple resource system."
"This presentation is an outgrowth of a workshop session held at Lake Arrowhead in 1973 on Distributed Software. The participants in the session were Dave Farber of UC Irvine (Chairman). Don Bennett of Sperrty Rand. Bob Bressler of Bolt. Beranek and Newman, Larry Rowe of UC Irvine, Bob Metcalfe of XEROX PARC, and Marty Graham of UC Berkeley."
"The 1073 Lake Arrowhead Workshop on Distributed Computers presented a session on “Hard-Core Hardware” in which a panel formed of Ed Bergman (Naval Electronic Laboratory Center), Jack Cornell (Systems Development Corporation), Bob Noyee (Intel), Ted Poppelbaum (University of Illinois), Rex Rice (Fairchild), Dan Slotnick (University of Illinois), and Joel Trimble (Office of Naval Research) indulged in enlightened crystal-ball gazing. It seems appropriate to start this paper with a summary of the points of view expressed by the panelists, although some of their opinions are also incorporated in later sections. (The author must, of course, take full blame for misrepresentations!)"
"The Cookbook is a place where computer designers can present their ideas, opinions, cries for help, and almost anything else short of social implications. Anything short and to-the-point will be published as-is; longer stuff will usually be abstracted along with your name and address for the benefit of those who want to inquire further. Things that look like regular articles may be referred to the regular editors for regular handling. Send material for this column to Jim Haynes, Applied Sciences, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95060."
"The motivation behind this work has been the view that for 20 years computer hardware has become increasingly complex, languages more devious, and operating systems less efficient. Now, microcomputers afford some of us the opportunity to return to simpler systems. Inexpensive, LSI microcomputers could open up vast new markets. Unfortunately, development of these markets may be delayed by undue emphasis on performance levels which prohibit minimum cost. We are already promised more complex next-generation microcomputers before the initial ones have been widely applied. This paper discusses these points and describes a simplified microcomputer architecture that offers maximum flexibility at minimum cost. Design philosophy, programming considerations, and typical systems are also discussed. Experience with breadboard versions of this architecture has verified its usefulness over a surprisingly wide range of potential applications."
  "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
 "Advertisement."
"Presents the cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
    "Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Advertisement."
"In the January 1974 issue of Computer, Art Collmeyer presented several papers describing recent developments in classical design automation. This issue expands on that theme, opening up the wide ranging application of DA techniques. All the papers selected for this issue are drawn from the proceedings of the Tenth Design Automation Workshop held in Portland, Oregon June 25–27, 1973."
"This paper represents a fairly extensive survey of the literature on the interconnection problem. The topics covered are Pin Assignment, Layering, Ordering, Wire List Determination, Spanning Trees, Rectilinear Steiner Trees, and Wire Layout. In addition, several new ideas are presented which could provide for better wire layout. Algorithms are presented in a way that makes them easy to understand, hence easy to discuss and apply. Formal statement of the algorithms can be found in the references cited."
"To anyone who has had the slightest connection with the design and construction of large programs for digital computers, it is obvious that this is no trivial task. Many times the design of such programs is woefully inadequate, and the effort required to get them right is tremendous. The sometimes ruinous cost of such inadequate design is well-known."
"Test patterns for testing digital circuits are usually checked on a test verification program to determine if all or most of the possible faults will be detected. Historically, such a test verification program would be accomplished with many simulations: one for each possible fault."
"The traditional method of designing textiles is to fill in patterns of squares on graph paper to represent the finished fabric. For the major classification of looms, the patterns also constitute a specification of how to set up the loom and how to control its moving parts."
"In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
"Advertisement."
"“Supercomputer” is a generic term which could apply to various machines depending on the criteria used. However, only a few computers today have the following characteristics and/or capabilities: • The machine can directly access very large amounts of memory (i.e., 10M-100M bits) and execute meaningful scalar instructions at very high speeds (i.e., 10M-100M instructions per second). • The high precision computations execute in a Floating Point Arithmetic Unit with either 60- or 64-bit data word formats. • Special hardware implementation techniques are employed to obtain better memory bandwidth and simultaneous I/O operations. • Within the CPU organization of these machines, pipelined execution and look-ahead hardware are used to achieve very fast arithmetic operation times (much less than 1 μsec for 64-bit operand multiplication). • An operational supercomputer system costs over $10 million today; the price varies depending on the peripherals and auxiliary storage devices included and on the accounting procedures used in costing the installation."
  "A revolutionary technique for screening prospective anti-cancer drugs has been reported by chemists at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory and the University of Washington."
"The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
 "Advertisement."
"Advertisement: If you'll help us attract and sign up new Computer Society members, it just might pay off for you in the form of an HP-65 programmable pocket-sized calculator."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
 "Advertisement: Complete and up to date, these four computer references provide technical and price information on data processing equipment worldwide. GML Reviews, published for 15 years, have set industry standards for clear, concise and comprehensive coverage of the data processing industry."
"Advertisement: If you'll help us attract and sign up new Computer Society members, it just might pay off for you in the form of an HP-65 programmable pocket-sized calculator."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The Honorable Gerald R. Ford, Vice President of the United States, will deliver an important address on Thursday, May 9, at the 1974 NCC in Chicago's McCormick Place. The Vice President will speak at 12 noon in the Arie Crown Theater."
"Advertisement."
"The field of digital image processing is growing exponentially, and as more researchers enter the arena, application areas continue to open with surprising rapidity. This special issue presents both a survey of the field as well as specific examples of projects currently in progress. Two main subjects are treated: image coding and image restoration-enhancement. The former area has particular application to the important task of sending images over digital communication networks, examples of which might include nationwide computer and timesharing networks for conferences, image sharing, and medical consultation. Other areas of image coding applications might include multispectral satellite imaging, spacecraft probes, remote piloted vehicles, facsimile transmission of images ranging from fingerprints to text, and even image transmission over existing telephone networks."
"In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
"Advertisement."
"The steady growth of modern communication requirements has resulted in a steady increase in the volume of pictorial data that must be transmitted from one location to another. In some cases, although image transmission to a remote location is not necessary, one does need to store the images for future retrieval and analysis."
"Advertisement."
"The state of the art in large-scale digital computers has recently opened the way for high resolution image processing by digital techniques. With the increasing availability of digital image input/output devices it is becoming quite feasible for the average computing facility to embark upon high-quality image restoration and enhancement. The motivation for such processes becomes self evident when one realizes the tremendous emphasis man puts on his visual senses for survival. Considering the relative success achieved in one-dimensional (usually time) signal processing, it is to be expected that far greater strides could be made in the visual two-dimensional realm of signal processing."
"Research in digital image processing at The Aerospace Corporation has been concerned primarily with the exploration of techniques for use in both civilian and military areas. In particular the research has centered on applications in law enforcement, earth resource assessment, and military systems design. Recent interests have also been extended to restoration of photography of space objects. While the central theme of the research has been dedicated to solving engineering problems, much effort has been expended in the development of general techniques and software to complement the applications studies."
"Advertisement."
 "Nearly everyone has seen the pictures brought back from the moon by the U. S. astronauts. Less remembered nowadays are the television pictures sent back from the moon's surface by the early unmanned lunar vehicles; these pictures were equally spectacular in their time and perhaps more important, since they gave NASA the basis on which to make the judgements about lunar terrain pertinent to the landing of a manned vehicle. Many people remarked on the sharpness and clarity of the television pictures of the moon, and similar ones now coming from Mars. But to the digital image processing community, the quality of the lunar images was no surprise, and was recognized as a result of the work done at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. JPL had digitally enhanced the incoming television images, imparting to the images sharpness that was sometimes missing in the originals."
"EG&G, Inc., a leader in the field of photographie data acquisition and analysis for over 25 years, has for the past five years been placing increased emphasis on digital image processing in support of the Field Testing Division of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory under AEC Contract No. AT(29–1)1183. During that time, capabilities that originally involved photogrammetric and radiometrie analysis have been augmented to include two-dimensional Fourier frequency analysis and spatial filtering of images. This article describes some of the image processing equipment at EG&G, along with the results obtained using this equipment, and discusses digital holography in greater detail."
"In recent years there has been an increasing interest in the processing of pictorial images by digital computer. Since the initial success of digital image correction at JPL in support of the space program, considerable effort has been devoted to applying image processing techniques in a wide variety of application areas. This effort has involved the direct spin-off of some basic research results in industrial applications and the utilization of this experience in establishing relevant directions of new image processing research and development."
"This conference brings together scientists in the field of Pattern Recognition from all over the world. The program for this conference will cover all aspects of theoretical and applied Pattern Recognition. Moreover, a number of speakers is invited to give a survey of some key problems, including their ideas about trends and future developments."
"The biomedical image analysis system at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory is being developed specifically to aid in the cytophotometric analysis of human chromosomes. Chromosomes carry genetic information in the form of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Our goal is to measure the amount of DNA in each of the 46 chromosomes in normal human cells, and to use such measurements to detect any departures from normal that may be associated with disease or aging, or with exposure to radiation, drugs, pollutants, or other noxious agents."
   "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
 "Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Some of the most important activities of the Computer Society are those sponsored by local chapters. At present there are 54 Computer Society chapters in the United States and Canada. Outside North America there are chapters in France, Switzerland, and Tokyo."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"As of press time, 483 of COMPUTER'S 19,000-odd readers had responded to the reader survey questionnaires we printed in the April issue. It's too soon - and the numbers are still too small - to draw any conclusions. Even so, we think a few trends are beginning to emerge - for example, the surprising preponderance of readers (67%) who classify themselves as users rather than OEMs, and the high percentage (58%) of readers with masters or doctorate degrees (vs. 39% for IEEE as a whole, according to SPECTRUM'S Audience Profile of March 1973). Another inter- esting trend is the high percentage (60%) of readers under age 35 (vs. 31% for IEEE as a whole, according to SPECTRUM). Here, in any case, are the raw numbers we've accumulated so far. We present them without comment (warts and all) - along with our promise to provide a more thorough analysis in an early issue. For those who are not in the picture yet, here's what we're trying to accomplish by this reader survey: (1) ensure that the magazine reflects your technical interests, and (2) obtain demographic data to substantiate our claims to potential advertisers."
"The term “operating system” usually refers to the software that provides the interface between the user and the computer system hardware. This software/hardware system can be viewed as an extended machine which is more convenient and economical to use than the bare machine. As the interface between user and hardware, operating systems must be designed with due consideration for both user requirements and technological constraints and opportunities."
"The ability to selectively control access to information in computing systems has taken on a heightened importance in recent years, and we can expect that concern to continue to grow. Large amounts of data are now being concentrated in readily processible form, technical developments in networking are linking those collections, and the computing power available to examine these data continues to increase. Each of these developments is being accompanied by dramatic decreases in costs. Public, institutional, governmental, and military concern over the impact of improper, inadequate controls and safeguards for this increasingly concentrated, inexpensive, and pervasive information processing power is rightfully increasing."
"The complete instruction-by-instruction simulation of one computer system on a different system is a well-known computing technique. It is often used for software development when a hardware base is being altered. For example, if a programmer is developing software for some new special purpose (e.g., aerospace) computer X which is under construction and as yet unavailable, he will likely begin by writing a simulator for that computer on some available general-purpose machine G. The simulator will provide a detailed simulation of the special-purpose environment X, including its processor, memory, and I/O devices. Except for possible timing dependencies, programs which run on the “simulated machine X” can later run on the “real machine X” (when it is finally built and checked out) with identical effect. The programs running on X can be arbitrary — including code to exercise simulated I/O devices, move data and instructions anywhere in simulated memory, or execute any instruction of the simulated machine. The simulator provides a layer of software filtering which protects the resources of the machine G from being misused by programs on X."
"The connection of several computers into a network poses new problems for the operating system designer. In order to appreciate these problems fully, it is useful to look briefly at networks from the point of view of their goals, their possible configurations, and their level of integration."
 "In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
 "Nervous goats, somersaulting pigeons, mini kangaroos, and an IBM computer are helping University of Cincinnati medical scientists in a search for the causes of human muscle diseases."
 "Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
 "Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of this magazine."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
 "Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Covers society bylaw issues."
"Covers society bylaw issues."
"The advent of the microprocessor is the beginning of a new computer revolution in our technological society. The multitude of companies announcing microprocessor developments, the rapidly increasing discussion of them in magazine articles and conferences, and the increasing number of products using them indicates the revolution is well under way."
"Microprocessors are very quickly reaching the stage of maturity as a design component in the field of digital systems even though they are relatively new. They are the one component with the most far reaching implications for future developments in the digital systems area since the transistor."
"Advertisement: SPIE - SOCIETY OF PHOTO-OPTICAL INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERS."
"The currently available microprocessors can be grouped into three classes based on functional partitioning: (1) the multichip family, consisting of compatible CPU, memory, and I/O devices; (2) the single-chip CPU, designed for standard product memory and I/O devices; and (3) the multichip microprogrammable CPU, designed for standard product memory and I/O devices. The limitations and advantages of the first two categories are well understood, since products in this class have been available for over two years and have been the subject of an avalanche of microprocessor articles. The third category, however, has been available for less than a year, and until recently has only been available as a manufacturer-defined processor system (National Semiconductor's IMP series of microprocessors). However, the manufacturer-defined processor, while providing a desirable starting point for most users, has tended to obscure some of the design flexibility of the basic chip set. The decision by National Semiconductor to provide full support for development of custom configurations of its chip set, plus the fact that designs of architecturally similar chip sets have been carried out by several other semiconductor manufacturers (including AMI, Monolithic Memories, and Raytheon) warrants a review of the unique advantages and potential pitfalls of this architecture."
"A point-of-sale (POS) terminal, besides serving as an ordinary isolated cash register, is also part of a retail data collection system. The system emphasis is on data collection, although minimal computational capability is also required. The rate of data input to this system is largely limited by the speed of the operator. These aspects influence terminal design. This article describes the capabilities of an existing terminal processor and compares them to a commercially available microprocessor chip."
"LSI microprocessors and microcomputers are among the new developments on the constantly changing computer scene. Recent months have seen an explosion of publications on various aspects of the topic; but no list of references for comparison and study has appeared. This bibliography attempts to compile all articles, books, conference papers, seminar notes, and technical reports about LSI microprocessors which have been published in English from 1970 to April, 1974. Articles on processors which have been microprogrammed are outside the scope of the bibliography. Patents and specific microcomputer manuals are not included. Citations are grouped by year of publication, then listed alphabetically by author. It is interesting to note that the vast majority of the material on this topic has been published in the United States. Little has come from Europe and Japan."
"To stay ahead of the state-of-the-art in the application and design of micros and minis, don't miss Compcon 74Fall in Washington, D.C., USA. The dates are September 10,11 and 12. This is the back of your registration card. Register now and save $15. Your registration form for the one-day Tutorial sponsored by Compcon 74 in Washington is on the reverse side of this card. Fill it out and send it in. Today. If you do, you'll save $10."
"Advertisement."
 "The last 10 to 15 years have seen the evolution of hardware diagnosis and testing from an art to a science (see Chang).1 Well conceived and well documented hardware test strategies are now available, as well as reliability measures for hardware designs. Software testing, on the other hand, has not experienced the same growth. (This is not to say that software is not being tested; many complex software systems are up and running without significant problems.) However, unlike hardware diagnosis, software testing methodology is very primitive."
"The microprocessor may at first appear to be a sophisticated toy, fit only for meager calculator or control duty. But look again: the operations which tie up substantial processor time in large timeshare processors could be accomplished by the mighty micro. A system that made use of microprocessors not only would give more processing time to the USER but also would cut the overall system cost. In addition, the USER would have to program only the main processor, since each microprocessor would have a separate duty to perform; furthermore, it would do so automatically — just as a programmer does not necessarily have to understand two's complement notation to subtract since subtraction is performed automatically by the ALU."
    "The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refereed; others  have not. If you have a paper of interest to the computer field, you are invited to submit two copies to Dr. Robert A. Short, IEEE Computer Society Editor-in-Chief, Department of Electrical Engineering, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. Be sure to include a cover letter giving permission to enter the paper in the Repository. Entry in the Repository does not constitute publication."
 "Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
 "Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents letters sent to the editor regarding previous articles from this publication or other relevant topics of discussion."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
 "Advertisement."
"Advertisement: Lexidata."
"Of central importance to the economic realization of minicomputer applications is the realtime executive. Applications such as data acquisition, process control, communications, and business data processing will be briefly discussed to identify their needs in a realtime executive. The main elements of these executives discussed include memory management, scheduling, data structuring and file handling, inter-program communication, and control structures. The characteristics of any realtime executive are mainly determined by the selection of alternatives for the realization of each of these elements. Various realtime executives will be discussed from this point of view with emphasis on the way the choice of design of the various key elements affect the application of the system."
"Microprocessors, to some degree, are causing computer history to repeat itself. The new areas in which microprocessors are being applied are as surprising and imaginative as were the first minicomputer applications to the computer industry when the minicomputer was a new concept. The microprocessor is also increasing the number of manufactured computers by roughly the same order of magnitude as did the minicomputer in its infancy."
"Despite the recreational and educational potential of stored-program computers, the single factor of cost has kept them out of the economic reach of most people. But with the advent of LSI microprocessor and memory chips, this may all change — particularly if we take a more modest applications approach and place reasonable limitations on hardware capability."
"In order to encourage research in the field of pattern recognition, the IEEE Computer Society's Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis has begun collecting data bases from a variety of sources. These data bases, including substantial back-up documentation, may be ordered by using the form at the back of the issue. Discounts off the data base list prices are available to IEEE members and members of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies' constituent societies. When ordering, you may elect to send us your own blank tapes; if you do, be sure they are in good condition and have no other data recorded on them. If you have a data base that you wish to contribute to the Technical Committee on Machine Pattern Analysis, please contact Dr. E.A. Parrish, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22901, USA."
"The potential applications for a microprocessor in an automobile can be divided roughly into the categories shown in Table 1. With existing emission regulations and possible future fuel economy legislation, a logical first application for an on-board computer is the engine control function. In this paper we shall concentrate on this application area, and will mention only those monitoring/diagnosis functions which are directly related."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"To realize fully the impact of electronic distance measurement on surveying technology, one must have had the experience of measuring a distance with a steel tape. However, an appreciation of the method used in making a distance measurement and the relative ease with which the measurement is made can be gained by understanding the basic operation of the HP-3805 electronic distance meter. So, this article begins by discussing distance meter operation, and then describes the microprocessor that was incorporated into the electronic distance meter. Next, the criteria considered in choosing the microprocessor are reviewed. Finally, we will point out the benefits of the union of a microprocessor and a distance meter to the design team, the manufacturer, and the customer."
"In late 1971, with Intel's announcement of the first processor on a chip, the staff at Beehive Medical Electronics began almost immediately to consider the advantages of using a microprocessor in a CRT terminal. Discussions evolved to serious definition of a new terminal design incorporating the following features: • Self test (as minicomputers do) • Standard hardware (capable of being customized by software changes only) • Simple implementation of polling protocols • Less random logic design • Stand-alone editing and computing capabilities"
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
   "Advertisement."
"The Repository, a collection of over 1200 technical papers and documents relating to computer science and engineering, is maintained by the Computer Society as a service to the information processing community. Some of the papers have been refe reed; others have not."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
   "Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
 "Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
 "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"In January we addressed the allied problems of (1) determining the options available in the current and continuing energy situation, and (2) educating the general public to those options and their probable consequences."
"LSI circuits can economically provide computer functions that would otherwise be performed by software. Two all-hardware computer systems, SYMBOL and HP-35 calculator, are discussed as key examples of the extent to which hardware has been finding new roles in computing. But the role of hardware is also increasing in many more-conventional computer systems."
"Reviews developments in computer networks which have evolved for reasons of economics and efficiency to permit information resident in one computer to be shared with others, to enable large numbers of users to have remote access to a computing centre, and to control the flow of information from one point to another. Types of systems and network configurations are discussed."
"Because computing costs are now so low, an unusual new concept of data communications is feasible. Called packet switching, this concept is strongly dependent on the cost of computing since it uses computers to correct transmission errors, to provide high reliability through alternate routing, and to allocate communication bandwidth dynamically on a demand basis rather than as a preassigned bandwidth. The ARPA computer network is discussed."
"Reviews examples of minicomputer software in a number of important application areas, hoping to help the reader make his own judgments about quality and diversity. A brief look at the history of minicomputer software development, and at some current trends in the field may help to put these application examples into focus."
"Discusses computer power supplies and in particular the three basic component areas in which almost everyone making computer power supplies feels cost reductions are due: power semiconductors, magnetics, and electrolytic capacitors."
"Discusses custom design of the peripherals required to complete a useful system: input/output devices, mass storage units, etc. Interfaces contain address decoding logic since many interfaces may attach to the same I/O bus. Since processors usually run at speeds much greater than peripherals, the interface is required to act as a synchronizing unit during data transfer. Level conversion, command decoding, multiplexing, and data request logic are all interface functions."
"Reviews the history of electronic computers."
"Events on this chart depict the story of early computer developments - in the United States - following closely the story told in the article, “The emergence of the digital computer” by Henry Tropp, in this issue."
"The digital engineer today faces a number of new design challenges. In addition to the combinational and sequential logic circuits he may have been designing in past years, he must now deal with the design of small special-purpose computers based on large-scale integrated circuits. He will need to be familiar with programming techniques to some degree, since many of his circuits will use stored programs, possibly in read-only semiconductor memory storage. More than ever before, he needs to know the functional and operational differences between various forms of logic and memory circuits (TTL, MOS, CMOS, beam-lead, etc.), and how they can be powered and interfaced. He needs access to techniques for coding and error detection methods, as well as to other techniques for reliability and data security. He needs to know the “tricks” used in organization of large computers, for ultimately they seem to become important even in very small digital systems."
"Discusses the efficiency, safety and natural resources aspects of the liquid metal fast breeder reactor. Essentially, the LMFBR will utilize about 70 percent of the potential energy in uranium ore. By contrast, only 1 to 2 percent of the potential energy of uranium is utilized in fission reactors; the remainder consists of waste tailings. The proponents of the LMFBR contend that, when this type of breeder is established as an operational entity in the power industry, the sharp increase in uranium requirements we are presently witnessing will fall off sharply."
"As the handiwork of electrical and electronics engineers becomes more entwined in the fabric of society, issues such as energy and materials shortages, international trade policies, pension reform, CATV, pollution control (among a host of other front-page stories) increasingly involve the electronics industry. These subjects, as well as numerous reports on the latest developments in all areas of electronic technology, make up the technical program of INTERCON '74. An added element this year is a series of special sessions organized by various IEEE Societies and Groups on timely subjects such as alternative energy sources, energy and social values, health care, and pollution, as well as design-oriented topics. Nine of these special sessions are listed in the table on p. 92. More are being organized at the time of this writing."
 "A microprocessor module has been added to Digital Equipment Corp's Logic Products line for applications that could not previously justify the capital cost of conventional minicomputers. The new programmable modules are conceived as components in dedicated, stand-alone applications such as industrial controllers, laboratory data acquisition, and data terminals."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"Brochures, manuals, and applications handbooks selected by the editors are listed for the assistance of engineer-readers."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
  "Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Reviews three new or recent texts of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
 "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"While we were addressing the possibility of modeling the world energy situation, or more practically parts of it (“Spectral lines,“ Jan., Feb. 1974), the Britons had cast aside any such ambitions in favor of pragmatic solutions. They had to! By January, many industries had been cut to a three-day week or by other means had been restricted to drawing no more than 65 percent of normal power from the mains."
"The author discusses systems and their performance. The basic OCR system operation is described. Scanning methods are discussed at length. Quantisation, feature extraction, recognition logic and context correction are discussed."
"Ever since I was a kid of twelve, riding the old iron-horse-drawn Twentieth Century Limited (New York Central's crack train between New York and Chicago), I've dreamed of riding up front in the locomotive cab. And the kid in me never grew up; the dream persisted — unfulfilled. So, imagine the thrill of being ushered by my ASEA (the Swedish opposite number of General Electric) host into the cab of an SJ Rc 2 class mainline locomotive, hauling an express train from Stockholm to Uppsala. The driver tooted the typically European high-pitched whistle, and we glided silently — without the jolt one expects in U.S. trains — out of Stockholm's Central Station. The 67-km-long ride was as different from the Penn Central's lurch, jerk, stop, stagger, and start as day is from night."
"Twice this century Japan has emerged on the global scene as a major power. The first time, after its exclusion from world markets and access to raw materials, it sought its place in the world through military prowess, only to find itself engaged in a suicidal war with the United States and the whole of Asia. Incendiaries and then two atomic bombs reduced the grandiose Empire it had built to the pile of ashes that was Tokyo, Osaka, Hiroshima, and Nagasaki in August 1945. At Potsdam, the victors decided that Japan should rise again only as a peaceful democracy without arms and without an armaments industry."
 "The author discusses computer simulation using continuous and discrete-event techniques. The promise of simulation, iterative simulation, separation of data and structure, simulation languages and interactive simulation are discussed."
"Minicomputer manufacturers are beginning to face a choice not unlike one that confronted the automobile industry a decade ago. At that time, the significant inroads made by small, foreign cars into the U.S. market forced Detroit to counter with small cars of its own, in order to maintain its domestic share of the business. For auto buyers, it wasn't merely a question of size, but one of economics. Small cars were less expensive to own and operate, yet could still perform their basic function of transportation, albeit with less comfort and fewer amenities."
"Most of the knee-jerk scapegoat-seeking that characterized the attitudes of many during the initial months of the energy crisis has apparently passed. In late January, at two different meetings, Spectrum found a new, practical approach to the energy crisis being offered — one that didn't try to pit industry vs. industry or Government vs. industry, but that admitted general responsibility for our sociotechnical quandary and went on to grope for a consensus policy."
"Engineering is basically a giant jobshop, and the individual engineer has to follow the action to forge a financially and professionally successful career."
"Of professional groups, engineers are clearly the most vulnerable when it comes to job security. No doctor or lawyer was ever laid off because his chosen specialty turned out to be overly speculative for a depressed economy. To begin with, most doctors and lawyers are self-employed. But even among interns or young law firm associates, there need be little fear for job security."
"A Lot. If you're thinking of setting up a small voice channel satellite communications network. Or if you've been looking for an economical data transmission system."
"The Tektronix 21/53 and 31/53 are calculator-based instrumentation systems using the TEK 21 and TEK 31 programmable calculators, respectively."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 16-page brochure describes the basic design features of microwave power transistors and discusses their application to several different types of circuits."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"The Proceedings of the IEEE, it should be remembered, is the offspring (some would say continuation) of the Proceedings of the Institute of Radio Engineers, a journal which, during the history of IRE, served as its core publication. Today, Proceedings retains many of the traditional characteristics of Proceedings of the IRE, yet differs in important ways. In particular, it is available to members by subscription (some 30 000 at present subscribe, and its readers represent all the Groups and Societies of IEEE, including those, like the Power Engineering Society, that were not constituents of IRE). During 1973, Proceedings published more than 1800 editorial pages, encompassing 144 papers and 225 technical letters."
"The authors consider the seven basic elements: data base of circuit descriptions; means of circuit simulation; method of test generation; a language with which to command a piece of automatic test equipment to carry out tests and a library of programs in this language; automatic test equipment; a diagnostic method; and some scheme for managing the mass of data. The application to design verification, testing during manufacture, and diagnosis by a repair organization is discussed."
"Describes the application of a transistor curve tracer to measure operational amplifier characteristics, test, circuits and results are shown. Open loop gain, input offset, common mode rejection, power supply rejection, supply rejection, supply current/supply voltage, and noise measurement and curves are described."
"Discusses the interface process between various pieces of microcomputer system equipment. The peripheral interface and the overall role of a microcomputer interface are described. On chip interfaces are discussed."
"Discusses interfaces for communications, a floppy disk, and a TV display in a microprocessor-based store-and-forward system for international leased line communications."
"For pt.I see ibid., vol.11, no.8, 44-54, (Aug 1974). Discusses vehicle automation, automatic train control systems, signalling and communication, marshalling automatic train operation, and reservations data processing."
"Discusses facsimile techniques for consumer use."
"The fax broadcasting venture of the '30s and the '40s (described in detail by Daniel M. Costigan in the accompanying article) was but one of the many faces facsimile communication has shown in its long and somewhat capricious history. It assumed its present role as a standard business communications tool in 1962, with the official opening of the telephone dial network (via appropriate interfaces) to customer-provided fax terminals. It has matured steadily in this latest role, finally achieving status as an industry in its own right."
"Gasoline, heating oil, and electric bills in recent months all testify to the inflationary effect of unchecked demand on limited supply. Short-term, workable solutions to the problem seem tangled in a web of expert opinion. Scientists argue the merits of nuclear fusion, solar power derived from synchronous satellites, or the hydrogen economy. Environmentalists champion austerity, conservation, and a curtailment of open-ended public consumption. But at least part of the answer could lie outside Buck Rogers and bureaucratic thinking in the earthy, engineering realm of bootstrapping. The municipal waste of industrial nations — long relegated to rat-infested land fills — can be diverted to fueling electric power and steam plants. Practical, workable systems already exist, while others are under advanced development. And it's a safe bet that no one need worry about running out of trash!"
"Every day, in every way, the large corporation looks more and more like a species of dinosaur on its lumbering way to extinction. The cultural and political environment becomes ever more hostile; natural adaptation becomes ever more difficult; possible modes of survival seem to be beyond its imaginative capacity. The author's thesis is that science is redefining capitalism. The intelligence is here or will soon become available to allow the corporation to evolve into a status befitting a new age. Whether the corporation succeeds or not depends on its response to the challenge, but no constraints of logic prevent its adjustment, only constraints of adaptation. If it is to escape the fate of the brontosaurus, Big Business, prompted by social ferment, must adapt to new ways. "
"WESCON technical sessions this year will concentrate heavily on “state-of-the-art” component technologies - charge-coupled devices (CCDs), microprocessors, displays (plasma, liquid crystal), and microwave devices (Gunn-effect and impatt) — as well as marketing and management topics. Much of the technical content is tied to computer hardware and software. For example, one of the two CCD sessions is devoted entirely to CCD memories in computers. About half the sessions are aimed at end users of electronics, many in nonelectronic fields such as medicine and agriculture. Production and manufacturing techniques are to be covered in a panel discussion, on the various semiconductor bonding technologies, and in sessions like those on additive printed-circuit techniques and automatic testing of LSI ICs and printed-circuit boards."
 "The Series 49800 miniature elapsed time indicator employs a simple electroplating process to provide accurate, nonreversible direct scale readouts of actual operating time. The device is approximately the size and configuration of a standard auto fuse. In addition to its compact size, the indicator is virtually tamper-proof. Models are available in 1000-, 2000-, 5000-, and 10 000-hour sizes."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 70-page handbook contains meaningful theoretical foundations for the application of A/D and D/A data conversion. Topics of discussion include: quantizing and sampling theory, settling time, the operation of analog multiplexers, digital coding, and A/D and D/A conversion and calibration. Block diagrams show the operation of A/D and D/A acquisition and conversion systems. The handbook also contains definitions of important parameters used to characterize analog multiplexers and the accuracy of the conversion systems."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"On this page in the previous three issues, we laid the groundwork for a discussion of alternatives to tackling the energy crisis. Meanwhile, the crisis has grown more complex, not only in the U.S. but in other advanced countries like Japan and England. If any point has emerged clearly, it is that threading our way back to normalcy can involve no single neat approach, and, on a corollary basis, defining a “super model” of the crisis is impossible. Rather, the road will involve partial and pragmatic solutions, plus reiterations as missteps occur. Perhaps useful models of small segments of the “world energy system” can be modeled, but this remains to be seen."
"Where engineering, science, and business are concerned, the portable personal calculator is rapidly moving from a novelty to a necessity. The technologists have found more than just a fancy replacement for their trusted slide rules. Running circles around any slipstick, the latest scientific portables feature memory, programming capability, and readouts in scientific notation, while turning out answers in fractions of a second. Accountants and bankers can relate to another special breed of electronic brain with built-in subroutines for bond, mortgage, and interest rate problems — keeping them ahead of the paperwork. There's even a calculator intended just to handle conversion problems between metric and U.S. measurement."
"Electrical engineers have shown a steadily increasing interest in the methodology of technological forecasting, assessment, and planning. Therefore, as a practitioner of this widely heralded art, I believe the time has come to examine realistically why it plays such a minor role in the actual process by which real-life business decisions are made. For the truth of the matter is that forecasting is still not, by and large, used very effectively, and it is my intention to explore in this article why this is so and then to provide some specific guidelines for line managers who wish to obtain more usable inputs from their corporate planning staffs or consultants."
"The author discusses the electric automobile. He discusses the pollution aspect, energy requirements, electric power plant primary fuels, and overall efficiency. Assumptions about possible future developments are discussed. A comparison is made between electric and gasoline automobiles in terms of energy."
"Four U.S. Government leaders who have distinguished themselves in matters of science and technology responded to Spectrum's call for analytical comments on the question of secrecy in science. Their comments complement Spectrum's report on. science, secrecy, and the law (Nov. 1973, pp. 65-70) in which both Justice Department and opposing views were presented. Despite the fact that all were asked to deliberate on the same topic — freedom of information and its impact on the scientific community — their responses are as varied as the personal styles of the individuals themselves."
"With the end of World War II, the peoples of the Western democracies hoped for a return to the free and easy days of the prewar period. Instead, a new era of tension occurred symbolized by the phrase “Cold War.”"
"Being against secrecy and for greater freedom of scientific and technical information is like being against evil and for motherhood. And, while I believe that we must be ever alert to the possibility of suppressed information, I do not believe that this is as serious a problem today as it once was. At the very least I would seriously doubt if you will find many proponents of secrecy among scientists and engineers, and certainly not among politicians. What we probably should be looking for are the impediments to the transfer of knowledge from the experimenter or conceiver to the user. While secrecy is certainly one such impediment, I do not think this is the central problem."
"Scientists are accustomed to thinking of freedom of information as a firm tradition — the truths of physical knowledge are universal and if you don't disclose freely and rapidly a new truth you have discovered, someone may beat you to it. But even in pure science, and to a much greater extent in applied science and technology, constraints on release of technical information do exist, and always have existed. Sometimes they have been commercial, sometimes political, sometimes they protect the national security and sometimes they protect a person or institution from embarrassment."
"It is pretty difficult to say anything on the subject of freedom of scientific and technological information except something nice. I do not intend that observation to be a facetious one. It is undeniably true that the strength, quality, and durability of our economy and, in fact, our country depend upon adequate scientific information and its judicious use."
"During World War II, the German Federal Railway — and anything capable of ground transport of military materiel and manpower on wheels — was systematically blasted by Allied air power in wall-to-wall or “carpet” bombing throughout the length and breadth of Germany and the occupied countries. Thus, the mainline routes were completely disrupted, the rolling stock and traction equipment were almost totally destroyed; commuter lines, and even Berlin's subway — one of Europe's oldest urban systems — were brought to a standstill. A fierce and grotesque battle was fought in the tunnels of Berlin's subway (U-Bahn) as Wehrmacht, Waffen SS grenadiers, and Russian troops utilized the underground cars to transport their forces during the final phases of the Battle of Berlin."
"A young engineer said recently in a conversation with a colleague that while he thought Spectrum a good publication, he did not believe he should be expected to pay $35 a year for it. This EE seemed to be equating his payment of IEEE dues with, perhaps, the most visible product of the Institute; but there are many other Institute member services and the question lingers: Was he simply unaware of these services, or was he dissatisfied with them?"
"The present search for alternate forms of energy in the face of an ever-widening fuel crisis is beginning to take shape along many fronts. One of the most promising of the new technologies — solar energy conversion — has just been allocated $50 million for the 1975 fiscal year by the Nixon Administration. Considering that this amount is close to four times that of FY 1974, perhaps the years of eclipse in solar energy research funding are past. Current efforts of the National Science Foundation (NSF) are further evidence of the trend."
"\"Look what powerful tools we have! See how they grow and what they can do! Isn't it clear that these tools will permit us to build any kind of world we want?\" Is not this thought, however it may be expressed, the theme for many engineering conferences and seminars today? I see in this enthusiastic and widely held attitude a not-so-magnificent obsession, even a conspiracy of forces that threatens to unbalance our humanity. It is a conspiracy of intellectual pride and prejudice, married to the technological tools of power. Excessive pride of the rational process leads to supreme arrogance, just as excessive concern for the nonrational process leads to witchcraft and demonic perversions."
 "The Deltaverta 610 encoder accepts a 0- to -10-volt analog signal and produces a pulse train whose rate is proportional to the input voltage, but which is synchronized to an external clock signal. A full 0- to -10-volt input swing of the encoder causes the pulse rate to vary from zero to the clock frequency."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
  "Explained in this 24-page catalog are a number of techniques used to solve oscillator problems faced by UHF, VHF, and microwave system designers."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Some time ago we suggested that if readers would reveal some of the more significant mistakes they had made, the results might prove a valuable contribution to the profession. We were warned by colleagues that it is just not in the cards for engineers to own up to their mistakes. In fact, after we barged in where others fear to tread, Alfred Zinn wrote to us suggesting that such an experiment could be disastrous. Physicians long ago learned the folly of such exercises, he said, offering this unlikely scenario involving two doctors at a medical convention"
"Whether fresh from school or a veteran, the engineer is headed up-but on a down escalator. If he stands still, the downrush of new technology will carry him to obsolescence. If he moves forward at a reasonable pace he can expect to stay about where he is. To move up rapidly, he has to strain."
"Everyone agrees that continuing education is a worthwhile, even necessary, effort — for somebody else."
"Whatever unanimity may once have existed within the groves of academe regarding the educational needs of the electrical engineering student, that unanimity seems now to be fragmented. Why this is so may not be clear. Certainly, educators are no more immune than the rest of us to the implications of an \"open society: that takes pride in its flexibility. Perhaps dissatisfaction with traditional programs among today's students has filtered up to the program planners. Or perhaps questioning educators are stirring student discontent merely by providing unnecessary options. One thing, however, is clear: whereas once upon a time the programs entering freshmen faced were in lock-step from university to university, today there are choices ... and significant ones."
"Innovation may be the most significant development to emerge from today's engineering education. In addition to changes brought about by the computer, microelectronics, and solid-state technologies, engineering schools are being affected by the contemporary climate of social awareness and immediate concerns for environmental quality and real-world training. Almost invariably, a new educational program will be interdisciplinary and/or interactive, in some way, with a realistic segment of our society, whether it be industry, government, or some social institution. The systems boys must literally be besides themselves!"
"Discusses electronic engineering education in the United States and the changes it is undergoing which will have significant and long-lasting effects on the engineering profession."
"With janitors calling themselves maintenance engineers, garbage men going under the guise of sanitation engineers, and industry promoting many top-grade technicians to positions as company engineers, there is little wonder that professionally trained engineers have lost ground to eroding waves of semantic look-alikes. While public understanding of any professional activity is probably minimal, \"engineer\" fails to convey a clear image that laymen (and many employers) are comfortable with. Contrast this with the almost automatic respect and recognition enjoyed by doctors and lawyers. Those who have pirated \"engineer\" as a cloak for other activities can't really be condemned. They've simply taken very businesslike advantage of an unprotected flank."
"Once, electrical engineering curricula varied little from one school to the next. In those days, the biggest problems were how to make the material understandable to students and how to motivate them in the less interesting courses that were deemed necessary to provide a rounded EE background. But the invasion of integrated circuit technology has thrown electrical engineering educators into a quandary, leaving some to search for solutions by revising the teaching of fundamentals and others to stress “now” courses as the best way of dealing with the new roles assigned to electrical engineers."
"While industrialists and educators argue about the pros and cons of power engineering curricula, most EE students remain indifferent to power engineering as a profession. Why? The reason may well be one expressed at the recent IEEE Power Engineering Society's Winter Meeting by John Hancock, dean of engineering, Purdue University, who said: “Despite the recent emphasis on energy needs, power engineering has a serious image problem.” His statement was mild compared to that of a Virginia Polytechnic Institute student who, at a rap session the next day, expressed the same conviction in these words: “There is a stigma attached to the idea of becoming a power engineer. A lot of undergraduate students feel that power engineers are a bunch of old codgers who've done the same thing the same way for 100 years. This feeling is particularly directed toward engineers working with the utilities.”"
"Discusses primary sources, references and guides including computer-aided retrieval services."
"Problems of contemporary society - pollution, energy, shortages, urban congestion, and mechanized war - do not respect international boundaries. Perhaps some of these problems could be better met if electrical engineers throughout the world were to speak a common language, or at least become more familiar with the similarities and differences among their respective educational systems."
 "A 4096-bit. dynamic MOS random access memory, the MOSTEK MK4096P. features a 350-ns access time and single transistor design. Offered in a standard 16-pin package, the device is TTL-compatible on all inputs and outputs, including clocks."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 20-page note covers basic principles of field effect transistor (FET) operation and describes a number of typical applications."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
 "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"One's powers of observation need not be excessively keen to notice that each person and every institution tends to develop its own \"circles of concern\" regarding specific topics. Although such circles of concern are often geographic in nature, rarely are they literally circles. Sometime they are time-related, in which case they might better be likened to an antenna pattern, one lobe extending backward into history and the other forward into the future."
"As this issue goes to press, Consolidated Edison, that much maligned electric utility serving New York City's demanding populace, faces bankruptcy unless the New York State legislature takes measures to provide state aid to the ailing power company. Part of its trouble stems from a rise in the utility's oil bill of $450 million, a figure Con Ed chairman Charles Luce notes is more than three times the company's 1973 dividend payments. Undoubtedly Con Ed's problems will be somehow solved. But, coming on the heels of a virtually nationwide shortage of gasoline at consumer pumps, the power company's problem seems just one more in an open-ended series of minicrises that together may characterize the next several years — not only in the U.S., but in advanced nations everywhere."
"Many technological options exist for primary energy resource recovery, fuel conditioning or processing, conversion, transmission, and storage. Some of these options are summarized in a table, and many of the more likely possibilities are reviewed in this article."
"\"There are no short-range shortcuts to plentiful energy supplies.\" So says Thomas H. Lee, newly inaugurated president of IEEE's Power Engineering Society. But the fact that Dr. Lee views the fuel/energy shortage as a problem likely to continue to plague us for a long time to come does not imply pessimism in his nature. Rather, he sees himself as a realist who believes that technological progress is achieved one step at a time, and that dramatic technological breakthroughs will offer no facile panaceas to the consequences of expanding populations and industrial economies."
"For engineers and nonengineer consumer alike, General Electric and Westinghouse Electric are household names. And as for utilities, most of us have heard of Public Service Electric and Gas, and Con Edison. But who, besides the power engineer, its customers, and its corporate stock-holders, knows American Electric Power? Yet the company today ranks as the largest investor-owned U.S. utility, with energy sales, during 1973, totaling nearly 75 billion kWh. Further, as the power engineer well knows, AEP is unique among the utilities in its reliance on coal, rather than oil, as its primary resource. Thus, the events of the last year - the Mideast petroleum embargo and the international energy crisis - have left AEP largely unscathed ... and so too its 1.76 million customers, across seven Midwest and midsouth states, who are currently paying fuel bills the bulk of us would envy. Through a combination of foresight and fortuitous circumstances, AEP, long regarded in power circles as a modern-day industrial anachronism, a dinosaur living off the remains of dinosaurs, has emerged as a glamor topic worthy of IEEE Spectrum's focus."
"Discusses computer control of power systems to provide economic dispatch stability, security, and reliable system operation."
"Of all the energy consumed in the U.S., 37 percent is used by private individuals for their homes and automobiles. Although the automobile accounts for about 15.5 percent of that total, and represents the single most energy-consuming product in our lives, the combination of space heating, water heating, and air conditioning consumes slightly more energy - 17 percent. The remaining 4.5 percent covers all the rest - cooking, dishwashing, laundry, lighting, home entertainment products, beauty aids, etc. So, aside from using the family automobile, or automobiles, more sensibly, the next best way to save energy is by examining household uses of energy. Before putting the electric toothbrush in storage, it makes sense to assess all energy-consuming household devices. Then, a plan for attack can start with the high energy consumers and proceed down the list to the lower ones as time, energy, and the family budget permit."
"A new title is rapidly entering organization charts, that of the energy czar. In many companies, his sweeping powers have this winter affected even plush executive suites, sending chills up the spines of top brass and workers alike. In a similar vein, the approach of summer promises that even the most passive work tasks will be sweaty."
"The road to energy conservation, we are told, is paved with simplistic “rules”: cut voltage supplies by 5 percent, remove every other fluorescent lamp from fixtures, avoid electric space heating, etc., etc. Unfortunately, many of these suggestions are either completely or partially erroneous. And they can even be counterproductive, causing an increase in energy consumption. The misconceptions have arisen because energy conservation is not simplistic. It is fraught with complicating factors."
 "In their annual summations of 1973 Institute activities, the Standing Boards and Committees of the IEEE have reported an impressive series of accomplishments. In many cases, these involved actions designed to improve internal efficiencies - both of a monetary nature and in internal communications. In other cases, Board and Committee energies were outwardly directed in order to further the Institute's technical and professional objectives. Highlights of the principal Board and Committee accomplishments include"
"A low-cost 16-channel data acquisition system in one compact module incorporates digital and analog integrated circuits. The module, called the DT1640, is designed to fit inside a minicomputer where it uses the mini's power supply rather than having separate power. It can be positioned on the same printed circuit board that the computer's digital logic circuits occupy."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 38-page note explains how a Fourier analyzer can be used to measure the power spectra of eiectrical and mechanical systems."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"You may recall a reader's recent letter to Spectrum in which he raised the question of what the criteria are for having an article accepted for publication in the technical press, and, specifically, whether an author's previous “track record” has any bearing on the matter. Undoubtedly the answer varies depending upon the association or publishing house, and even upon the inclination of an individual editor or reviewer. Nevertheless, a summary of Spectrum's policy and methodology in this regard is in order. In subsequent discussions, we shall hope to describe how the matter is handled by Proceedings and Transactions, too."
"Discusses decision analysis techniques applied to computer assembly design. The definition of best choice of design is discussed at length and applied to bipolar, MOS LSI and MOS LSI with bipolar back-up assembly. The economic aspects are emphasised."
"Reviews applications in control, identification, diagnostics, teaching machines, and games. The authors discuss advantages and possible disadvantages."
"The prospect of sitting atop a Saturn missile and being propelled to orbital heights is probably not every engineer's idea of fun, but EE-scientist-astronaut Own Garriott experienced just that - and then circled the earth in Skylab 3 on an orbital mission that lasted nearly two months and brought him both pleasure and satisfaction."
"Discusses voice response systems including voice synthesis and speech recognition and speaker verification. Automatic editing, vocabulary creation, real-time programming and memory requirements are discussed."
"The author discusses the energy crisis, effects on the economy, and the application of electric power generation to make better use of primary fuels."
"Discusses West German railway efficiency improvement using electronic signals and continuous automatic train control, techniques and application to integrated transport control."
"It is true, as a relatively stable salary levelled employee, the engineer in an inflationary spiral will not fare as well as the hourly or union worker. So, relatively, engineers lose in net income during this period."
"Representative Victor V. Veysey (R-Calif.), a mechanical engineering graduate of the California Institute of Technology, is serving his second term as a member of the U.S. Congress. Presently on the House Appropriations Committee, he has also served on the House Committee on Education and Labor and the Committee on House Administration."
 "An n-channel MOS microcomputer, the 8080, is available with accompanying peripheral products from Intel. It offers a high-performance central processor unit (CPU), peripheral circuits, a new version of the Intellec 8 program development system, and a set of software development packages and system engineering and programming manuals."
"A closed-circuit television system, the Circon model MV9100, is designed specifically for microscopic examination up to 3000 power. The system is built within a single console and includes the following: a high-resolution camera, a solid-state monitor, a remote-focus camera platform, and a fiber optic illumination system. Accessories are available and plug into the console."
"This 56-page booklet gives a thorough discussion of the theory, function, and applications of circuit breakers. Descriptions of components and tripping mechanisms are presented in a simple-to-understand manner. Diagrams and trip curves illustrate the explanations of breaker basics."
  "Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
 "Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
 "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"As one might suspect, although there are some similarities in the way publishing decisions are made by the Editors of the Institute's various Transactions and the way they're made by Spectrum (Spectral lines, July, p. 33), there are significant differences too. Furthermore, there are important variations in review methods among the Transactions themselves. The salient conclusion may well be that procedures are seldom dogmatic in nature, but rather are tailored to the best interests of the Group or Society in question."
"We who were his students at Townsend Harris. Hall and the College of the City of New York always referred to him as \"the Doctor,\" in distinction from run-of-the-mill Ph.D.s on the faculty. Some of us were wireless amateurs (not \"hams,\" please) and he was our special benefactor not only as a teacher but as a generous donor of equipment to the City College Radio Club, founded in 1914 but hardly a going concern until the following year. By that time we were fairly experienced: another boy of 12 and I had a primitive station in the Bronx in 1908 (wavelength unknown, range about four blocks, call letters \"YF,\" which in American Morse had a beautiful lilt.)"
"Discusses the need for sophisticated testing of solid-state electronics with complex components and systems."
"The author discusses all-electric locomotives and unusual railway systems."
"Discusses the European space program for a communication satellite system for telephone, data, and TV traffic. Cost conscious beams, polarisation techniques, launching and long-life circuits are described."
"Continuing the emphasis on the practical, this year's WESCON with its 27-session technical program provides a fair mix of \"how to\" and tutorial sessions, many of which are aimed at the end user in electronic and nonelectronic (agricultural and medical) fields. Many papers to be presented deal with \"state-of-the-art\" component technologies such as CCDs (charge-coupled devices), displays (liquid crystal and plasma), microprocessor ICs, and Gunn-effect and IMPATT microwave devices. Other papers deal with various marketing, management, and financial aspects of electronics."
"Discusses two- and three-dimensional imaging in ultrasonic diagnosis imaging systems."
"The author discusses the principles, and advantages and shortcomings for home and light commercial use. A hybrid fuse-breaker combination is recommended."
"According to the latest forecast of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, engineering manpower needs in the U.S. will rise from the estimated 1.1 million persons employed in engineering occupations in 1972 to 1.5 million by 1985. The same projection suggests that there will be an average of 53 000 annual openings through the next decade, not including transfers out of the occupation, — which would raise the number to 73 500."
"Ten IEEE offices, including those of the President and Vice President, must be filled this fall in the Institute's annual election. This means, of course, that the postman will shortly be delivering the ballots upon which IEEE voting members can indicate their preferences. To facilitate the process, IEEE Spectrum is publishing, as we do each year, brief statements by the candidates. In addition, in accordance with a new election procedure in Region 6 (see page 83), statements by the candidates for Vice Chairman in that Region are included also. Further, for those who are unacquainted with IEEE procedures, we shall review the Institute's election process."
 "Where cost-conscious consumers are served by many innovative (and rival) suppliers, free market competition has its best chance to flourish. The portable calculator industry retains all these elements, while promoting a product that has caught nearly everyone's attention."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 86-page booklet contains technical data, performance curves, and selection criteria for a wide range of oscillator types. It describes a line of oscillators, multiplier/amplifiers, and other related components. Frequency output, swing, stability, and linearity characteristics of various voltage-controlled oscillators are compared. These include R-C, L-C, and crystal oscillators."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
 "Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"When we decided to tackle the article about the three Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) engineers (p. 69), our colleagues told us it would be a “no-win” situation for Spectrum. The case, now under litigation, presumably could be “won” by one side or the other, they noted, but Spectrum, if it published the article, would make friends on neither side. However, our objective wasn't to make friends or to curry favor, so we forged ahead, hoping to illuminate issues of some consequence to members of IEEE."
"In carrying out the extraterrestrial unmanned landing-a more difficult feat than close-orbit of flyby missions-Viking will employ two radar systems (one for determining altitude, the other for such parameters as velocity, drift, and attitude), and two communications systems (one as a direct link from both orbiter and lander to Earth, the other a one-way relay link from lander to orbiter). To obtain maximum reliability from these critical systems, sophisticated automatic checkout equipment has been developed by Martin Marietta, prime contractor for the Vicking program."
"By 1975, electric energy will be produced in northwest Mozambique in one of the largest hydroelectric systems under construction."
"A hurricane is bearing down on New Orleans. At the ready is a Government-operated aircraft equipped with silver-iodide cloud-seeding apparatus. The question: To seed or not to seed ..."
"An $885 000 lawsuit was recently filed, and leveled at the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system management, by three of its former engineer-employees. (The trial in Superior Court, Alameda County, Calif., is scheduled to begin on October 25.) This latest in a series of technological and financial troubles — cost overruns caused by inflation, labor stoppages, illegal change orders, erratic appropriations, quality-control deficiencies, etc. (many of which were discussed in the writer's articles in the September, October, and November 1972 issues, and in the March and April 1973 issues of Spectrum) — presents potentially the most serious implications to the engineering profession of any of BART's past woes. Although the continued operation and future development of the BART system will remain relatively unaffected by the outcome of this litigation, the dispute that triggered the engineers' suit warrants the attention of every professional engineer because of its grave technical and ethical underpinnings."
"A first look at the hidden half of microcomputer-based design: the programs that can make or break a system."
"The older engineer, outflanked by technology or undercut by mismanagement, faces special employment problems. \"Technological obsolescence\" used to be reserved for the chrome creations of Detroit and a host of household wonders that managed to expire surprisingly soon after their warrantees ran out. Now it seems that engineers themselves may be joining their handiwork on the road to short-term oblivion. And taking a few evening classes or reading current technical literature isn't going to keep the wolf from the door. About the best insurance is literally demanding challenging assignments rather than accepting routine tasks. Another alternative is changing careers. After all, a good engineering education can lead to a lot more than slide rules and solder."
"A comparison of display media, including light emitters and controllers and CRTs, reveals which are best for what."
"Take a 35-year-old assistant professor of electrical engineering, add intense personal interest in consumer protection, and then supply him funding through the National Science Foundation for research on effective methods, materials, and media for upgrading consumers' technical sophistication."
"The “computer pen,” initially developed by Stanford Research Institute, will be commercially available by the first quarter of 1975. Called Alphabec-70, the system is capable of recognizing 16 handwritten characters - all ten digits and six additional control symibols."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This six-page note explains the detailed operation of a retriggerable one-shot circuit that exhibits high noise immunity. Logic diagrams and signal timing charts are used to illustrate the explanation, which covers the various modes of circuit operation."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
  "Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
 "Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
  "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"When the likelihood of catastrophic failure of a complex system is infinitesimal, the problem of protecting that system from such a failure assumes quite a different complexion from that associated with “everyday” (high-probability) failures. Such is the case with nuclear power plants, which, in the most authoritative study to date on the topic of accident risks in commercial nuclear plants,∗ are projected to yield risks of only one core melt accident per plant every 17 000 years. The consequences of a core melt accident depend on three factors: the amount of radioactivity released, the way it is dispersed due to prevailing weather conditions, and the number of people exposed. When these three factors in 4800 different combinations were assessed for the U.S. in the aforementioned study, the conclusions were: The probability of 100 or more fatalities is predicted to be about 1 in 1 000 000; the largest calculated value was 2300 fatalities with a probability of about one in a billion."
"Every once in a while I am asked to dust off my crystal ball (single-crystal, of course) and discourse on the future of instrumentation, or what the Hewlett-Packard 1984 catalogue will offer. I always approach such an assignment with a great deal of trepidation because I am acutely aware of my limitations as a prophet and of the many unforeseeable discoveries that have occurred during my lifetime, that continue to occur, and that profoundly affect the course of our technology. But such excuses rarely dissuade my petitioners and so, at the risk of exposing myself to future ridicule, here are a few thoughts on what may lie ahead. But first let me back up a few decades and get a running start."
"While surveying the design of a dozen existing microprocessor-based instruments, the author was impressed by the variety of instrument functions that seem to lend themselves to microprocessor implementation. This article examines some of these functions, using various features of existing instruments as examples."
"Points out that flexibility, reasonable cost, and compatibility are musts when interconnecting independently manufactured devices into a workable system."
"Once upon a time, remote troubleshooting consisted of curiosity, courage, and the judicious application of two moistened fingertips. But field engineers, servicemen, and others who must work \"on location\" - as opposed to the controlled environment of a well-stocked lab - have constantly demanded rugged, manageable, and accurate test equipment. To this need, the integrated circuit, coupled with digital readouts and improved battery packs, has brought a welcome revolution. Oscilloscopes, function generators, strip chart recorders, spectrum analyzers, as well as vastly improved volt-ohm milliammeters, are now ready to go wherever the problems are. And variety doesn't stop with these familiar items. New types of instruments such as a portable digital thermometer, which measures surface temperatures without physical contact, have helped turn difficult and costly analysis into routine field checks. In fact, the best perspective on current progress and future trends is gained from a good look at some currently successful and recently announced portable instruments."
"Built-in calibrating and self-testing features are two ways of easing servicing problems. But digital circuits present unique problems."
"Such is the aggregate fantasy of the user of instruments, as determined by a comprehensive Spectrum survey the details of which are described in the box below. Specifically, while most instrument users are reasonably content with the current breed of instruments that cross their work benches, they are at the same time demanding in their expectations of a future breed of instrument. For one thing, they see down time as reducible and accuracy as open to improvement. For another, they expect an ever-decreasing cost/performance ratio. Again, they may be pleased by the recent trend toward increasing portability, but they are far from satisfied with overall instrument design (human engineering). And finally, there are persistent complaints regarding documentation — be it product manuals, programming instructions, etc. — and field representatives. But first the good news ... "
"Although recorded attempts to integrate human factors into equipment design date back to the last century, it was not until World War II that human factors engineering became a specialized science. Today, instrument manufacturers consider \"human engineering\" vital in gaining user confidence as well as dollars. Indeed, many respondents to a recent Spectrum instrumentation survey (see pp. 69-72) regarded neglect of human factors a major problem in instruments they didn't like. Perhaps the greatest exponent of human factors engineering is NASA, which throughout the space program has conceptualized man as a working component of the overall system. In fact, NASA has defined a manned space system as hardware, software, and man!"
"In the fall of 1965, a group of industrial designers, electrical engineers, and mechanical engineers at Tektronix were called upon to form a team with the express purpose of building a medical instrument. Since it was to be Tektronix' first attempt to enter this market, not much was known about the problems of medical instrumentation and its related technology. This proved to have one advantage, however, since the absence of established rules and protocol governing the new project allowed its members to start completely from scratch. The result: a synergistic approach to the project task (see Box, this page) that led to an instrument superior to any that could have been obtained through disjointed efforts."
"From channel redundancy to direct digital control, new concepts in design are aiding the man at the power switch."
"What do transient recorders, digital logic analyzers, and so-called “smart”instruments have in common? They're all instruments of the Seventies, fulfilling the need for new types of measurements. Together with traditional instruments that measure time, frequency, voltage, current, resistance, and capacitance, which have been vastly improved in detail and measurement ability, the new instruments provide the engineer with new dimensions in measurement capability."
"The 3000 series of bipolar large-scale integrated (LSI) circuit blocks is designed to meet the needs of data control and communication systems for highspeed programmable logic. A Central Processing Element (CPE) and Microprogram Control Unit (MCU) are the key blocks. The MCU selects microinstructions from a high-speed microprogram memory in the order required to execute higher-level instructions. It contains all the logic for such selections, as well as several other functions that support CPE operations. One MCU is normally required per system, but any number may be used in a multiprocessor system."
"For more information on the following new products, circle numbers on the reader service card corresponding to bracket numbers."
"This 130-page catalog and discussion provides a basis for the understanding of power supply design and performance. The basic ac to dc power supply model is developed, while different circuit arrangements illustrate methods to adjust voltage power supplies. There are discussions on measurement techniques, digital control, thermal design criteria, operational theory, output deviations in high-speed power supplies, multi-unit interconnections, bounding, and automatic crossover. A power supply glossary is also included."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
  "Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
   "Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"The other day I stopped by to visit with Arthur Reynders, a long-time member of IEEE. Mr. Reynders was in his shop, carefully fitting the mitred corners of a picture frame he was making “to order” for a friend. He is in official retirement now, living in Heritage Hall in Agawam, Massachusetts. He seems much busier than most of his colleagues in residence, having commandeered a utility room to set up a respectably equipped shop, complete with power drill press, grinder, a broad array of hand tools, and some ingenious multipurpose jigs and fixtures of his own design."
"Do fires of an electrical origin occur more frequently in homes wired with aluminum instead of more expensive copper? The answer is not clear, although at least three investigations are underway in the U.S. exploring the facts that high-resistivity aluminum oxides and spot temperatures high enough to cause combustion have been found in aluminum wire connections of less than ideal design."
"Aboard his yacht Elettra, Guglielmo Marconi first used frequencies of about 500 MHz over long paths up to 250 km 6368669 almost nine times the optical distance. He was well aware that his observations did not square with accepted theory of the day. In fact, he noted: “The speculations that may arise from such results concern the entire theory of radio transmission over distances greater than the optical one.”"
"Marconi's many successes have been attributed to his outstanding experimental ability, to his perseverance, to the courage he displayed in the face of numerous and considerable obstacles, to the enthusiasm he instilled in his assistants, and to his capability as an industrialist. All this is true, but it is not the whole story. The effective mobilization of such great human qualities, of so much energy, was possible because Marconi had in mind a clear objective. His goal — one he considered important enough to warrant the devotion of a lifetime's intellectual, moral, and material resources — was the creation of a system: wireless telegraphy."
"The engineer who designs microprocessor-based equipment sooner or later must bring software and hardware together into a working system. For many, a self-contained microcomputer, like those listed on the next two pages, may be the most effective means to achieve design goals. These development systems provide the user with a microprocessor, memory, built-in software, a power supply, and input-output circuits so he can program hardware that looks very much like the final product he intends to build."
"A new type of credit card brings a banker, or his cash-dispensing machine, on line and speeds checkout and payment for retail goods."
"Simultaneous multichannel recording, pretrigger memory, and combinatorial triggering are now available for difficult digital measurements."
"The trend toward the application of electronics engineering to biomedical problem-solving is as evident in the U.S.S.R. as anywhere else in the world, according to members of this year's IEEE delegation to the annual Popov Society Congress. For example, considerable experimentation is underway in the Soviet Union using lasers on individual cells, tumors, and organs to determine both the positive and negative effects of laser radiation."
"Computer Automation's LSI Type 2/10 is a medium-speed minicomputer whose 600-ns internal cycle time and $1750 price (for a 4k 16-bit core memory) places it between the faster, and more expensive, LSI Type 2 20 and slower, but less expensive, LSI Type 1. All three are fully compatible, electrically, mechanically, in spares, and in programming."
"For very low input bias current (subpicoampere region) without excessive offset voltage, voltage drift, or noise, designers have had to settle for more expensive and larger modular op amps 0.003 pA p-p current noise from 0.1 Hz to 10 Hz. The low offset voltage of the 3523 series family enables the devices to be used without offset nulling. This feature is an advantage when the amplifier is to be located near the signal source."
"The first issue of the New Logic Notebook contains a 34-page analysis of how to select, apply, and program microcomputers and microprocessors. A procedure is outlined for obtaining an optimum design based on the application requirements of the desired system. A list of the major features of software, hardware, and system design allows an insight into processor selection."
"Provides notice of content of interest to practitioners and researchers published in other IEEE periodicals."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming special issue(s) of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order form for currently available IEEE standards."
"Order form for special publications currently avaiable from IEEE."
"Order form for educational aids currently avaiable from IEEE."
    "This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of IEEE Spectrum for the calendar year 1974. The Author Index includes authors of feature articles and book reviewers. The Subject Index includes feature articles and book reviews (listed alphabetically by subject under the category “Book Reviews”). The News Index includes items from the Inside IEEE and Focal Points sections."
"Provides notice of upcoming content in future issues of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
 "Three of the four articles in this issue are concerned with allocation of an organization's resources to Research, Development, and Engineering (R. D. & E)."
"In investigating the proposition that creative ability is crucial to the conduct of successful scientific research, the author assessed creative ability and scientific research competence for each member of a total sample of sixty-four scientists, selected from a large sub-unit of a state university and an independent research laboratory. The expectation that creative ability would be strongly related to manifest research competence definitely was not met: no direct relationship was found between the two variables. The possible moderating effects of scientist interpersonal competence were then examined. The principal conclusion drawn from this study is that there are additional psychological, social, and organizational variables whose interactive properties affect the translation of inherent creative ability directly into creative performance."
"This survey was undertaken to determine what factors are considered when a manager has to decide whether an idea, or new embryo process or product, is to go on to the next stage of development in the innovation process. An attempt was made to provide a complete listing of articles and reports which have been published since 1967. The literature reviewed covers idea generation, transmission and evaluation; market group involvement in the innovation decision process; project selection and evaluation; and possible impact of formal project selection models or techniques on the bench scientist or engineer. The factors or procedures used by various organizations to select and evaluate projects are described. Examples of the several classes of mathematical models proposed by management scientists are given. As was the case in 1967 very few of these models have been used in actual business situations and the reasons for this lack of use are presented."
"Three methods suggested in the literature are described and compared. Their relationship to business practice is discussed. It is shown that some very large differences exist between the theoretical models and the behavior of the firms. Some suggestions are made regarding how the differences can be lessened."
"One of the early flights of NASA's space shuttle will be allocated to the Langley Research Center as an orbiting research laboratory, and a study team of scientists in the Shuttle Experiments Office has the responsibility for selecting the set of scientific experiments which will be performed on the flights. Working closely with the team, the authors developed a procedure which leads to an `optimal' resolution of the group decision problem. The approach taken can be characterized as a way of organizing the expert judgments of the team members to establish a measure of group preference over the set of experimental packages, and a particular feature of the procedure is the manner in which it structured a hierarchical taxonomy of the group task and talent to be employed in combination with the assignment of `influence weights' to achieve a maximal utilization of the expertise of the study team. Though the information demands are somewhat high, the approach was fully accepted by the study team as a rational way to make the selection of an experimental package and considerably preferred to an essentially political mode of resolution."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This Special Issue of this TRANSACTIONS is directed to the subject of Administrative Experimentation, which may be described as the use of the methods of scientific experimentation by the administrator (manager) in evaluating changes he has made or is planning to make to obtain improvements in performance. The origin of this issue may be traced to the long-term interest of the Administrative Committee and the Editor in obtaining more papers by working managers for this TRANSACTIONS. It is hoped that the description of the method of administrative experimentation which is provided, and the examples, will encourage engineering managers to report the results of their own, often informal, experiments."
"Fifty-eight engineers and engineering managers designed, as part of the requirements of a graduate engineering course, administrative experiments based upon a management problem of their own choosing and the application of methods of scientific experimentation. Their control over the choice of problem increased the likelihood that the problem would be one of immediate importance and relevance to their administrative responsibilities; the use of the methods of scientific experimentation would increase the likelihood of credible results. A definition and explanation of the term `administrative experiments' is presented, and a description of the experimenters and their experiments, including the changes proposed, the results desired, and the problems encountered, is provided."
"The time series experimental design is used to measure the effect of increasing individual responsibility with regard to housekeeping in an industrial laboratory. To determine whether the increased responsibility actually motivated the people involved to improve laboratory cleanliness, an inspection panel was selected to rate the lab for cleanliness before and after the proposed policy change was made. Parameters that required some control included remodeling in some areas of the lab, visits to the lab by corporate VIP's, unusually heavy or light work loads, selection and control of the panelists, interference by union cleaners through grievance procedures, and the attitudes of those affected by the change toward the new policy. The results, which dramatically illustrate the need for controlling parameters, indicate some improvement in the housekeeping of the lab that can be related to the policy change."
"An administrative experiment investigating the relationship between organizational structure and organizational effectiveness was carried out in a large, urban health department. By using an interrupted time series experimental design, the author evaluates the relationship between the degree of decentralization and the level of productivity for 13 of 22 health districts and 6 of 11 health programs operated by the health department."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a set of activities which encourages both creativity in managerial problem-solving and systematic assessment of results. Examples from industry, community groups, service institutions, and education illustrate the activities. Cultivation of the skills involved in the administrative experiment will facilitate the advancement of the art of management."
"This paper describes a proposed administrative experiment in a health care system. The concept of administrative experiments is discussed at some length, and the details of the specific experiment are given; the rationale for many of the design decisions is made explicit. Reasons for the failure to implement the experiment are discussed."
"For paper see ibid. vol.21, no.1 9-23 (1974)."
 "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The first component of this month's editorial is an advance notice for the November 1974 special joint issue with the British Journal R & D Management. Cooperation with that relatively new journal was described in the editorial of the November 1973 issue. The general plan for the joint issue — on the important subject of “project selection and resource allocation in R&D” — was to select a number of U.S. and European articles in a mixture of new, as yet unpublished ones and some reprints. An attempt is being made to include as many articles as practical on actual applications of project selection and related models, rather than to emphasize primarily theoretical or hypothetical approaches. Readers of this TRANSACTIONS and R & D Management will have to judge how well that balance was achieved."
"The story of the development of an `Activity Reporting Information System' (`ARIS') in the `SQC Engineering' department illustrates three conclusions regarding the design and implementation of management information systems: (1) An MIS originates and develops within an evolutionary context, a constantly changing milieu of organizational and technological possibilities. (2) The realization of an MIS is the product of sustained individual and group commitment in an otherwise indifferent (or hostile) social environment. (3) An MIS is a basis for question-raising as well as for question-answering. Implicit in every MIS design is a concept of what questions ought to be asked."
"Examines the effects of delays in project completion and/or attainment of full capacity production on the discounted present value of a project. The decision-making technique developed in the ensuing presentation can guide a project director in dealing with situations created by project delays and over-estimation of expected demands or a particular product."
"By mid-career the majority of the engineers have progressed to management positions. Management programs designed for engineers are offered under a variety of names and formats in many engineering schools. Three classes of such programs are defined and discussed. As a discipline in engineering education, engineering management suffers from lack of common identity. An important vehicle for communication and mutual problem solution is the ASEE Constituent Committee on Engineering Management which has now been officially active for 16 months. Some goals proposed for this committee and progress toward them during this initial period are described."
"Certain decision processes, such as the R&D budgeting process, that involve interaction among individuals may exhibit a bistable characteristic. This phenomenon is similar in shape to the hysteresis phenomenon observed in physical systems. Such phenomena are often difficult to analyze unless they can be broken down into separate, single-valued functions. The type of feedback analysis that has proven useful in analyzing physical hysteresis in bi-stable circuits seems to be applicable to the analysis of organizational phenomena such as decisional hysteresis. Because this form of analysis is likely to be unfamiliar to those whose research or practice lies in the field of organizational behavior, it is offered here as a potentially useful tool."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
  "Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This is the first venture in combined editorship of two journals, the IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management from the USA and R & D Management from the UK. Since the birth of the younger of the two journals, R & D Management, in 1970, there has been a collaboration and exchange of material and information between the editors. The editors have now taken the opportunity to combine in a joint issue devoted to a topic central to the interests of the two sets of readers, that of project selection. The articles have been chosen to cover a number of aspects of research project selection. It is not possible within the space available to survey the subject completely. It is hoped that the articles are not only of interest in themselves but are concerned with enough aspects of the subject to show the range of current interest. These notes will endeavor to pick up some points of interest from the articles to show where we think current interest is centered."
"A tentative planning and resource allocation system for product-oriented research in large centralized research laboratories is described. The system has been developed and tested on the basis of a number of case studies. It can be used as an information system providing the research organization with research goals and their economic value and also to recommend which research project funding patterns have the greatest value to the company. The system is named QUESTAR (Quantitative Utility Evaluation Suggesting Targets for the Allocation of Resources) and has been developed in cooperation with Abt Associates, Management Consultants of Cambridge, Massachusetts."
"At the present time, very few organizations appear to be using the more complex, portfolio based, resource allocation models proposed in the literature. It is the objective of this paper to discuss some extensions and improvements to a basic linear programming approach to decision making in R&D, pointing out their weaknesses whether of a theoretical or practical nature."
"A method for selecting a program of research by calculating the overall costs and benefits is outlined and then, as an example, it is applied to a particular field of research. The field selected is that of research into Vehicle Safety. The method of collecting the data for the necessary analysis is described and using two separate program objectives, namely the maximization of gross benefits and the maximization of net benefits, various selections are made using linear program computer techniques. The dangers of uncritical acceptance of cost/benefit criteria in project selections are noted. In particular the need for freedom to devote effort to understanding the nature of problems rather than achieve quick solutions is pointed out. Finally, reasons are given for modifying the portfolio selected to produce what is called a pragmatic portfolio."
"A dynamic, time-staged mixed integer model is currently being used for the selection of industrial long-range R&D portfolio. Input data from research and marketing are processed through logical programs to provide the discounted payoffs, probabilities (Bayesian, parallel strategies), subjective nonmonetary multiple criteria weights, and the matrix for the mathematical programming model. The multiperiod portfolio is revised sequentially for resources exhaustion throughout the planning horizon by the staged introduction of additional projects. Marginal payoff function (additional investments vs. expected payoff) is a by-product for the support of additional resources justification. Mathematical and heuristic techniques used to overcome common difficulties confronted by previously discussed models are presented. Experience with model introduction to management is also discussed."
"Starting from the premise that commercial research aims to maximize the expected profitability for a given expenditure on research, a Profitability Index is derived based on a decision tree concept. The practical application of this Profitability Index at the British Petroleum Company Limited's Sunbury Research Centre in the context of research sponsored by several departments is then described."
"Project selection is not a process which occurs at a particular instance in time and to which any single technique or even combination of techniques can be applied. It is an ongoing operation which requires inputs from the idea generation and creativity area and which raises questions about long-term planning and corporate strategy. This paper therefore considers the problem from an organizational point of view and draws upon a variety of research findings which help us to understand how the process might be improved and how some of the more formalized procedures which have been suggested in the literature can be of assistance."
"In this study, fifteen managers and scientists experimented with the use of a Q-sort procedure for evaluating and prioritizing thirteen research projects. Q-sorting is a psychometric method for classifying items according to the opinions of a group of persons, and for evoking group consensus on these classifications. The procedure focuses on the rather natural individual opinion/group decision making process that must take place in project selection/evaluation. In general, the participants thought that Q-sorting was too imprecise to yield final decisions. However, progress was made toward organizational consensus, and the participants felt that procedure was valuable for facilitating scientist/scientist and the scientist-manager communications within the evaluation process. It was therefore concluded that Q-sorting may be a valuable aid to the heuristic idea-exchange process that should accompany any formal project selection exercise. The results here suggest that Q-sorting may be a good procedure to facilitate the use of a mathematical project selection model."
"Comments on Helin and Sounder's paper ibid., 159-62."
"The R&D project selection decision is described as a process by which an intermittent stream of changes are made to lists of currently active and proposed projects. It includes generating alternatives, determining when a decision is required, collecting data, specifying constraints and criteria, and recycling. The decision is viewed as imbedded within a hierarchical, diffuse budgeting and planning process. Process characteristics such as multiple criteria whose relative importance varies over time, inherent uncertainty and parameter interrelationships result in a highly complex decision problem. The existing normative R&D benefit measurement and project selection literature is assessed and the limitations inherent in the proposed models are determined. A number of research opportunities are identified for both methodological and empirical studies."
"A method is described which was developed to evaluate the `behaviour' characteristics of a computer program used for R&D Resource Allocation. Results are included for the application of this method to a computer-aided decision process previously used in the Air Force Flight Dynamics Laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. This evaluation method is possibly applicable in general to other computer-aided management systems."
"The Association was established in 1966. It is a permanent body in which European science-based firms meet together to discuss and study industrial research policy and management, and through which they take joint action to try to resolve some of the outstanding problems in this field."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
  "This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Must affluence produce undue effluence? Does a society in which almost everyone is \"rich\" by their grandfathers' standards have to be a wasteful society? Is unnecessary waste caused mostly by lack of forethought, or do some of our unstated values produce the problem? These and other provocative questions will be explored by a panel of four stimulating and highly qualified persons:"
"EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are portions of a letter sent to Dr. Chestnut, which the writer requested we publish. We invite contributions from all IEEE regions."
"One of the foundations on which any professional organization rests is the unhampered exchange of information between members. Apparently, there are some within IEEE who still do not grasp this concept."
"Troublemakers were always supposed to be the bad guys. They created problems where none existed. They were unpleasant when everything was fine. Or they simply had a malicious streak."
"In a brief article in the April 1 ATP Newsletter discussing his recent meeting with the Engineering Manpower Commission, Arthur Obermayer reached some unflattering conclusions about the interests of the Commission and the motives of its members on the basis of a single brief meeting during which most of the talking was actually done by himself and the other four invited speakers."
"While our future well-being on this planet may depend in the long run on significant breakthroughs in the areas of food technology, energy production, transportation and population control, some immediate improvement in our overall being may result in some cases from the implementation of well known and proven techniques."
"One of the most pressing areas concerning the social implications of technology is the interplay between patent rights, anti-trust laws, compulsory licensing and technological develpment. Rapid legal changes are ocurring on a number of fronts concerned with technology and social need, and it is increasingly difficult to maintain a perspective both of the fundamental issues under consideration and the present state of law and practice in the United States."
"RESOLUTION: \"We, the participants in the Conference on Scientists in the Public Interest: The Role of Professional Societies, held at Alta, Utah, September 7–9, 1973; recognize that various governmental and voluntary agencies and organizations often require scientific advice and technical assistance in formulating or implementing policies involving technological components. This need is great and largely unmet. It exists in agencies of executive, legislative and judicial branches of the federal, state and local governments, as well as in national and community citizens' action groups."
"There must be an ethical responsibility in the practice of Professional Engineering, supplementing corporate profit objectives, if the public is to be afforded safety protection. The Code of Ethics sets forth basic principles of conduct which the Engineer agrees to practice by. Each engineer gauges his particular practice situation against this standard. He faces the possibility of being challenged if he deviates."
"The present energy crisis could be predicted (and was) at least a decade ago… Instead of going to the moon, we should have gone to the earth. The energy is there, and it will be produced — but not before we have had to pay a handsome tribute to our Arab energy masters."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A two-day, limited attendance, workshop bringing together students, engineers, employers, educators, and social scientists to explore engineering education os related to societal needs. Workshop sponsors include; IEEE Committee on Social Implications of Technology; IEEE Education Group; with the cooperation of the University of Kentucky, College of Engineering; Office of Continuing Education, Technology and Society Division; American Society of Mechanical Engineer Education Division; American Nuclear Society."
 "Can Professional Engineering Societies, as presently constituted, support and protect engineers who respond to the call of professional ethics in protecting the public health, safety and welfare? If the experiences of the members of the National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) Chapter in California, who came to the aid of three fired BART engineers, is any example, the answer probably is no."
"Decision making in a technical field continues to be studied as it has since man first traded a pelt for a stone ax. The complexity of today's technology with its rapid developments creates a situation where the control of technology or of a technological industry is being put to a severe test. If appears that as any one field becomes more technical, society is tempted to call in more and more experts for policy decisions. Thus, the general public is moved further and further from the seat of control. This loss of control may be lessened by more study along old lines of thinking but newer points of view are required to reverse this trend."
"In the December CSIT Newsletter you ask whether \"the underpinnings of most IEEE activities are commercial\"."
"In organizing the Working Group on Systems Engineering and Public Technology (it was initially called Working Group on Applications of Systems Engineering), we first had to address the question of the purpose of such a group. The present answer for WG-SEPT is as follows: To address significant questions in the area of the application of systems engineering to societal problems, where there is a prospect of making a worthwhile contribution."
"All investigations in process and planned in the Transplant Program rely heavily on computing as an indispensable and integral aid. Societal problems generally do not lend themselves to the elegance often associated with mathematical research. Often large quantities of data are generated which require ingenious analysis and probing with the use of both mathematical and computing science techniques."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Attendees of the CSIT Workshop On Engineering in the Service of Society presented 25 paper and generated seven pages of recommndations from five working session on New Educational programs. Title will be found on page 11. These will be published in the Record of the Workship which will be available for purchase from IEEE Headquater in December 1974."
"I thought that you or a member of the CSIT might be interested in a report recently published here \"Living with Technology\", and enclose a copy. Yours sincerely"
"The Association of Scientists and Professional Engineering Personnel (ASPEP) represents research, development and design engineers, and scientists at RCA in the Camden, N. J. area. After certification by the National Labor Relations Board in 1945 as the collective bargaining representative for the professional community at RCA, a contract was negotiated with RCA covering salaries, pensions fringe benefits and all terms and conditions of employment, including a formal merit review system, layoff and rehiring procedures, a severance pay program and an arbitration procedure for the settlement of disputes between the parties. This contract has been renegotiated 17 times since 1945."
"Persons in today's technological environment, be they rich or poor, live amidst an ascendancy of discovery and innovation, and a corpulence of goods, gadgets and communications. Stimulated — even goaded — by the positive feedback of commercial advertising, individuals in all circumstances want (not necessarily need) more. The people who control resources strive in every way for expansion, and in a modern world where \"success\" is linked to \"growth\", the extravagant increase of demand, by an increasing longer-lived population, has yielded a phenomenal crescendo of patents, printed matter, miles traveled per capita, vehicle speed, income, and energy consumption/1/. The time is nigh when growth, in terms of increased sales and production, will have generated a Social cost far in excess of societal benefits derived. It is not enough to wait until government and others who control the money, resources, and communications exert the influence required to decrease or reverse this acceleration to catastrophe. Nor, in the face of the impulse-buying mania of \"free\" societies and rigid economic disciplines of others, can it be expected that the earning consumers be ever sufficiently organized — or disposed as a whole — to resist and overcome inertia and exert their economic pressure potential in order to assure their ultimate benefit. The task, it seems, must fall on those of us who Me between — those who supply the wherewithal: engineers, scientists, analysts, technicians, organized labor, and others who wish to become concerned consumers (whose concern is not \"more\" products, or even \"better\" products, but \"clean\" products, the manufacture of which has generated a minimum of waste and which has after-use potential and value.) Motivated initially by public opinion and pressure, and subsequent legislation enforced, and now, perhaps, by profit, the industry (and technology) involved with recycling and other commercial solid waste processing is growing. What else can be done?"
"Periodically we learn of opportunities for engineers to serve as technical experts on matters of local public interest. Recent examples are: a request from the Federal Power Commission for names of advisers to local legislators and industries on energy conservation; information from the Center for Science in the Public Interest on their need for experts to assist consumer groups and citizens action groups; a similar need by the Environmental Defense Fund for expert witnesses in court proceedings, In such cases, the technical expert speaks for himself, not for IEEE."
"An increasing number of IEEE Sections are taking advantage of the recent change in the constitution of the IEEE, and are becoming actively involved in professional activities. The Boston Section has established a Professional Activities Committee (PAC) affiliated with the IEEE United States Activity Committee (USAC). During the coming year PAC hopes to be quite active and lists at least four areas of major concern: a) Government relations b) Public relations c) Community science and technology projects d) Industrial and University relations. In the future PAC hopes to expand this list in accordance with the wishes of the section members."
"Dean Basil R. Myers, College of Engineering and Science, University of Maine, Orono, Maine, 04473, who recently succeeded Dean H. William Welch, Arizona State University, as Chairman of the Working Group on Education would be pleased to hear from those who wish to be placed on the Group's mailing list for information regarding the Group's activities, and would be particularly pleased to receive the names of volunteers who wish to participate actively in the work of the Group. IEEE membership is not a prerequisite, but is expected."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: CSIT welcomes participation by any IEEE member interested in social implications of technology. The following is a list of current members of the committee. Information regarding the committee, membership, the establishment of new topical groups, the newsletter mailing list, etc. may be obtained from Mr. Goldberg, Mr. Robbi, or Dr. Edmonds. Information regarding a specific working group may be obtained from its chairman."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
 "The eleventh IEEE Annual Conference on Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects was held in Fort Collins, Colorado on July 15–18, 1974 on the campus of Colorado State University. More than 290 attended. The Conference was officially sponsored by the Radiation Effects Committee of the IEEE Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society in cooperation with the Office of Conferences and Institutes, Colorado State University and partially supported by the Defense Nuclear Agency."
"For nearly a decade, the December issue of the Transactions on Nuclear Science has contained selected papers from the IEEE Annual Conference on Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects. Considered collectively, these December issues probably constitute the most important source of documented technical information for workers in the field of applied radiation effects. Papers presented at this year's conference are indicative of the broad range of technical interests found in the radiation effects community. Papers in Session 1 are concerned with the basic mechanisms of interactions between radiation and solid materials. Such phenomena are examined for technologically important insulators and semiconductors. One feature of this first session is a series of papers dealing with the basic aspects of radiationinduced effects in materials employed a s gate insulators in MOS transistors. Related papers on MOS devices are contained in Session 3. A topic dealt with in several Session 3 papers is the effects of ionizing radiation on CMOS/SOS structures. Session 2 contains papers describing radiation effects on a variety of devices, ranging from silicon transistors to fiber optic waveguides."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The publication offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers."
"The Outstanding Paper Award for the 1974 Conference was given to authors of two papers that were judged by the awards committee to be of equal merit: R. J. Powell and G. W. Hughes, for their paper entitled “Charge Injection and Trapping in Al2O, Gate Insulators” J. R. Srour, 0. L. Curtis, Jr., and K. Y. Chiu, for their paper entitled “Charge Transport Studies in SiO2: Processing Effects and Implications for Radiation Hardening”. Biographies of these individuals and summaries of their papers are given below. The awards committee also judged two papers to be worthy of Honorable Mention: “Photo-Compton Currents at Material Interfaces: Theory and Experiment” by T. A. Dellin, K. W. Dolan, and C. J. MacCallum “Permanent and Transient Radiation Induced Losses in Optical Fibers” by B. D. Evans and G. H. Sigel, Jr. The complete texts of all four of the above-mentioned papers are contained in this issue."
"Electron irradiation induced changes in both the photo- and cathodo-luminescence spectra of high purity CdS platelets have been monitored over a wavelength range from 4800Å to 2 μm. The irradiations were all performed near 10K using beam energies from 100 keV to 1 MeV. By irradiating with electron energies between the cadmium and sulfur displacement thresholds, and above the cadmium displacement threshold, the damage induced luminescence could be assigned to specific sublattices. In the bound exciton spectral region near the band edge, all exciton lines present before irradiation were observed to decrease in intensity with the exception of the emission line at 4867Å. This line was observed to grow in absolute intensity for irradiation energies above the sulfur displacement threshold. We attribute the 4867Å emission to the decay of an exciton bound to a shallow neutral donor state associated with the sulfur vacancy. The edge emission was found to decay in intensity when observed by photoluminescence but to increase in intensity when excited by 100 keV electrons following an irradiation above the sulfur displacement threshold. Broad band luminescence has also been produced by irradiation at 7200Å and 1.03 μm. The 7200 Å band is not observed, however, until a thermal anneal is performed above a recovery stage centered at 180 K. The edge emission and bound exciton emission partially recover in this same temperature range. Another annealing stage is observed at 230 K by monitoring the intensity of emission bands at 1.03 and 1.65 μm. The annealing stage at 180 K is associated with sulfur sublattice damage recovery while the stage at 230 K is due to recovery of cadmium sublattice damage."
"Photoconductivity measurements performed under carefully controlled conditions have revealed that the dominant defects in low temperature, electron irradiated n-type Ge are optically active, double-acceptor type defects which thermally anneal at a temperature around 65°K. The stability of these defects is sensitive to temperature, background light levels, irradiation fluenced and fluxes, and probably impurity type and concentration. It is concluded from the results of this and other studies that the optically active defect is probably an isolated vacancy."
"Displacement damage in InSb is calculated for 1MeV and 14MeV incident neutrons. Ranges and energy deposition profiles are calculated with the E-DEP-1 computer code and combined with published neutron cross sections to obtain atomic displacement rates and range distributions. The damage ratio of 14MeV to 1MeV neutrons is estimated as close to unity. Comparison results are presented for Si. Experimental verification for unity damage ratio is given."
"Radiation effects on the electrical conductivity, Hall mobility, and carrier density were studied on three different types of p-type PbSnTe samples. One type (sample 1) was vapor-grown with an initial carrier density of ∼4 &time; 1016 cm−3, and was irradiated with 30-MeV electrons at 78°K. Another type (sample 2), which was cut from a solid-state recrystallized boule and then annealed to lower its carrier concentration to ∼8 &time; 1017 cm−3, was also irradiated with 30-MeV electrons at 78°K. The other type of specimen (sample 3) was an epitaxially deposited thin film on a BaF2 substratum, with a carrier concentration of ∼4 &time; 1017 cm−3. It was electron-irradiated at 9°K and subsequently gamma- and neutron-irradiated at 78°K. Temperature dependence of the optical transmission for sample 3 was performed to determine the radiation dependence of the energy bandgap."
"We present a theoretical model for the effects of electron irradiation on the bulk electronic energy band parameters of HgCdTe. The material is treated as degenerate. We predict irradiation induced changes in the shape of spectral response and resolve apparent inconsistencies in the HgCdTe photoresponse data. Qualitative, overall changes in photoconductive detector response are predicted and we find a general trend that short wavelength materials are less susceptible to the effects of radiation."
"Indium sesquitelluride (In2Te3) is typical of a large class of defect semiconductors which are tetrahedrally bonded but which possess room temperature vacancy concentrations of the order of 5.5 &time; 10 cm−3. It has been proposed by V.M. Koshkin et al. that these semiconductors can not preserve non-equilibrium point defect concentrations. This hypothesis has been tested in the present experiments by electron irradiating In2Te3 at 77 K with 1 MeV electrons and using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) to observe the results. Several different resonances have been observed with g values ranging from 1.979 to 2.133 and possessing X-band line widths of 7 to 42 gauss. All of the resonances except the largest one at g = 2.019 have orientation dependent g values and all anneal at different temperatures suggesting that several different defect centers have been produced. Because the 1 MeV electron defect production rate for these centers at 77 K (0.01 to 0.1 defects/electron) is typical of defect production rates observed in other compound semiconductors, the hypothesis proposed by Koshkin et al. is incorrect. The stability of these defects is somewhat lower than in non-defect semiconducting compounds, however, since none of these defects survive prolonged room temperature annealing and since no additional complex centers formed by thermal annealing have been detected."
"Rapid annealing after radiation and field injection characteristics of Al2O3 MIS capacitors have been investigated by means of a fast C-V measurement technique. The results indicate that electron injection under positive bias and trapping of radiation-generated holes are dominated by an interface transition region at the Si-Al2O3 interface which need not extend further than 20–30 A from the Si substrate to account for the observations. The field injection charging characteristics are well described by a model invoking direct tunneling of electrons from the Si valence band into electron traps in the interface transition region with an energy distribution consistent with field-injected photo-depopulation studies."
"Defect center production in irradiated silica is shown to exceed that found in stoichiometric SiO2. The defect centers observed are the E′ type which are associated with oxygen vacancies. It is suggested that a large concentration of E′ centers is expected near the oxygen deficient Si-SiO2 interface of irradiated MOS devices and that the presence of these defects is one source of positive space charge buildup within the first hundred Angstroms of the oxide. In addition, the 4500Å emission band observed in irradiated SiO2 has been shown to be associated with the decay of E′ centers."
"The effects of light and heavy ion bombardment on Na and Cl motion in SiO2 thin films have been studied using proton-induced characteristic x-ray (PIX) and Rutherford backscattering (RBS) techniques. Results show that both Na and Cl atoms may be trapped in the oxides by implantation damage. Release does not occur under ionizing irradiation (proton bombardment). Partial release or motion does occur after annealing to 700°C or by further heavy ion bombardments. Na motion is consistent with the movement of single Na+ ions in the oxide. In contrast, the movement of Cl atoms appears to be dominated by enhanced Cl diffusion or by motion of positive Cl-defect complexes whenever heavy ion bombardment damage is introduced."
"The distribution of sodium in the oxide films of MOS capacitors was determined by etch-off procedures, using sodium-22 as a tracer. The effects on sodium distribution of ionizing radiation, of in-diffused aluminum, and of bias-temperature stressing were then determined and compared with C-V measurements of the total oxide charge in the same samples. Aluminum films sintered for 30 minutes at 500°C provided high aluminum concentrations (∼1020/cm3) in the oxide near the surface, while sintering for 60 minutes caused aluminum to diffuse about three times deeper. In both cases low concentrations (∼1018/cm3) were found next to the silicon. Aluminum-rich portions of the oxide were found to trap sodium, and thus the oxides with the 30-minute aluminum sinter had very little sodium concentrated near the silicon substrate (0.2 to 0.6 &time; 1011/cm2); the interfacial sodium accounted for only 2% of the oxide charge determined by C-V measurements. Oxides without aluminum or with 60-minute aluminum sinter had nearly 10-fold higher interfacial sodium concentrations (1 to 6 &time; 1011/cm2) and this interfacial sodium accounted for 10% of the oxide charge from C-V measurements. Ionizing radiation (106 rads in one hour from cobalt-60 at 25°C with a positive bias of 106 volts/cm) increased the total oxide charge by 14 to 17 &time; 1011 electronic charges/cm2, but caused very small increases, in interfacial sodium (0.2 to 0.9 &time; 1011 ions/cm2). However, the combination of ionizing radiation followed by positive bias stress (106 volts/cm) at 300°C for 10 minutes caused an appreciable movement of sodium to the interface in some of the oxides, especially those with no aluminum or with aluminum sintered for 60 minutes. Positive bias at 300°C for 10 minutes in aluminum-doped oxides caused large increases in negative voltage shifts (corresponding to an increase of 10 to 20 &time; 1011 positive charges per cm2) but in the same tests no more than 3 &time; 1011 sodium ions per cm2 moved into the oxide next to the silicon substrate. These results suggest that the drift of positively charged aluminum interstitials may be the cause of much of the voltage shift in 300°C tests."
"Charge transport studies have been performed on SiO2 films using an electron-beam injection technique. MOS capacitors incorporating oxides grown at 1000 and 1100°C were investigated, including units fabricated at Hughes Aircraft using radiation hardening procedures. A comparison of beam-induced current vs field characteristics is made for devices with differing processing histories. Additionally, experimental determinations of trapped positive charge vs collected charge were performed. Present findings indicate that holes are mobile in SiO2, that the schubweg model is insufficient for describing charge transport in SiO2 films, and that the electron-hole pair creation energy for SiO2 is ≤ 19 eV. Current vs field data can be qualitatively explained in terms of columnar and/or geminate recombination. Conclusions concerning the effects of processing on charge buildup are made and a qualitative model based on experimental findings is presented. Implications of this model for radiation hardening are discussed."
"Irradiation of fiber optic waveguides with X-rays, gamma-rays, electrons, or neutrons can cause luminescence and losses in optical transmission. These effects have been measured, using pulsed and continuous radiation sources, in bulk materials and in most commercially available fiber bundles. Some important effects of dopants and impurities such as Ge, Ti, Fe, Al, and OH on radiation-resistance have also been determined. Transient absorption and luminescence were measured from 10 ns to 0.1s after irradiation (10 to 106 rads and 109 to 1013 rads/sec), and the permanent absorption was measured from 24 to 72 hours after irradiation (103 to 109 rads). These results show that synthetic vitreous silica (undoped), some doped silicas, polymethylmethacrylate and polystyrene can be used in radiation environments that are encountered in space and military applications. The utility of each of these fibers depends on the particular radiation environment, the length of waveguide, the wavelength of signal light, the time any system can be “off the air”, and constraints imposed by fiber cost. The data can be used to determine the response of actual fiber systems during and after irradiation."
"Addition of aluminum as a cation substituent in GaAs improves the relative radiation hardness of the GaAs light emitting diode, as deduced from both gamma and neutron irradiation experiments to 108 rads (Si) and 3.5&time;1013 neutrons/cm2, respectively. The gamma damage coefficient, Ky, shows a marked and unexpected decrease from 52 (rads (Si) .s)−1 to ∼ 2 (rads(Si) .s)−1 in the composition range from GaAs to ∼ Ga.90Al 10AS. Above 10 percent Al content, the damage coefficient changes only slightly. On the other hand, the neutron damage coefficient Kn shows a gradual change over the entire compositional range from 0 to 34 percent aluminum. Annealing of the gamma-irradiated samples indicates that the 240° C stage noted for GaAs and attributed to an arsenic vacancy is reduced with addition of aluminum. On the other hand the annealing of the Ga1−xAlxAs samples following neutron irradiation indicates that the annealing characteristics are virtually independent of the aluminum composition. For both types of irradiation there is a shift of the peak emission wavelength to shorter wavelengths following irradiation."
"The effects of high-energy neutron irradiation on the photoconductive properties of chemically-deposited PbS infrared detectors have been investigated in the I011 n/cm2 to 1014 n/cm2 fluence range. Long term degradation in signal response has been observed subsequent to room temperature irradiation of 2×1012 n/cm2 or greater fluetices. Seventy-five percent of the degradation can be attributed to a reduction in majority carrier lifetime, and the most likely source for the additional 25% reduction in the photoconductivity is the quantum efficiency. However, the degradation is not permanent. The recovery proceeds logarithmically with time. The dark resistance was unaffected by the irradiation. Additionally, if the detector views a visible light source simultaneously with the neutron irradiation, a significant increase in signal degradation rate is found."
"A code is presented to predict the statistics of transient responses to gamma radiation of rectangular solid state devices. Use of the chordlength distribution and assuming the radiation flux isotropic obviates use of Monte Carlo techniques, so that the code runs fast enough for exploratory use. It is discovered that, for small detectors, relatively large-area non-square thin detectors are advantageous."
"With the deployment of fiber optic data transmission links in military and domestic communications systems which may be subjected to various levels of ionizing radiation it is of interest to determine both the permanent and transient radiation-induced optical transmission loss in both fibers and relevant bulk glasses. Loss produced by both Co60 γ-irradiation and by pulsed electron (0.5 MeV) irradiation in both high-loss and low-loss fibers is presented. Luminescence for some hundreds of microseconds following pulsed electron irradiation of low-loss fibers is briefly discussed in terms of possible electromagnetic interference effects."
"This paper provides experimental and analytical data on the transient radiation response and d.c. electrical characteristics of JFETs and MISFETs at cryogenic temperatures. Experimental measurements were performed on commercially available silicon devices over the temperature range 4.2°K to 300°K. A 2 Mev Flash X-ray Facility was used for the photocurrent measurements. The theoretical effort provides a compilation of silicon properties at cryogenic temperatures and scopes out the first-order temperature dependence of JFETs and MISFETs. It was observed that (a) the MISFET functioned well at channel temperatures down to 4.2°K, (b) the JFET would not conduct current at channel temperatures below 50°K (though it could be held on by self-heating at case temperatures down to 4.2°K), (c) the photocurrents of each device enhanced by a factor of 2 or more at temperatures below 40°K. The results are in general agreement with first-order theory, but many problems must be resolved to achieve adequate modeling and understanding of relevant phenomena."
"Studies of channel mobility reduction in P channel MOSFETS with gamma and/or neutron irradiation are reported. For pure gamma irradiation, the reduction in mobility is caused by increased surface charge scattering. The surface charge scattering mobility is found to have a temperature and surface charge dependence of T−0.5/NSC. For pure neutron irradiation, the reduction in channel mobility arises from scattering at neutron-produced bulk-centers. In reactor neutron irradiations, gamma fluence can be as important as the neutron fluence in reducing channel mobility."
"The radiation degradation produced in solar cells by the energetic charged particles of space is an important design constraint for many space missions. Since the original degradation estimates for Telstar1 by Brown and Rosenweig, a series of reports sponsored by NASA2, 3, 4 have reflected the development of increased environment definition and solar cell degradation understanding. These reports have treated the degradation of the solar cell primarily by bulk displacement damage through the use of an experimentally determined damage coefficient. Inherent in the external damage coefficient approach is the assumption that 1) radiation damage in the solar cell structure is uniform, and 2) that the effect of the damage on cell response is uniform across the cell. It is these assumptions that lead to many of the functional dependencies of the damage coefficients on such variables as fluence, light spectra, and particle angle of incidence. These assumptions also render the method inadequate in dealing with low energy proton damage which is very nonuniform within the cell. Further, the assumptions of uniformity of damage and response put limitations on the accuracy that can be expected in evaluating cell response to space radiation spectra which produce nonuniform damage profiles across the cells. These problems have long been recognized and various models have been proposed to deal with the nonuniform damage production and response."
"Domain wall mobility changes have been observed in magnetic bubble domain materials (rare-earth iron garnet films) following irradiation with 3 MeV protons to fluences of 5 &time; 1016 p/cm2 and 1017 p/cm2. The mobility was observed to decrease by 24% and 43%, respectively. No measurable changes in the coercive field have been observed. Similar experiments with 1 MeV electrons to 1016 e/cw2 and 14 MeV neutrons to 1014 n/cm3 have yielded negative results. A damage threshold of ∼ 1016 p.cm2 at 3 MeV is established and a fast neutron damage threshold is inferred to be ∼ 1018 n/cm2. A slight broadening of the ferromagnetic resonance linewidth following the proton irradiations is evidence of increased magnetic damping caused by displacement damage in the garnet films."
"A comprehensive summary of the effects of pulsed ionizing radiation on the operation of several types of passive surface acoustic wave devices is presented. Three distinct types of malfunction were observed and are discussed in detail. In addition, the effects of neutron and 60Co gamma permanent displacement damage on the operation of a monolithic SAW amplifier are presented."
"This paper discusses two problems: the partitioning of bipolar transistor breakdown voltage between the collector and the base in the context of neutron tolerance, and the dependence of collector photocurrent on substrate doping. It is suggested that enhanced neutron tolerance for a given breakdown voltage may sometimes be achieved by increasing the basewidth so that a portion of the breakdown voltage is supported by the base. Peak current gains of ten were achieved with a four micron basewidth after exposure to 3 &time; 1014 neutrons (1 MeV eq.) cm−2. Substrate photocurrents were found to be very dependent on substrate doping; by using a substrate doping of 1020 cm−3, substrate photo-currents were suppressed to an equivalent silicon photocurrent collection length of three microns."
"Radiation tolerant CMOS circuits can be made by building them in a thin film of silicon-on-sapphire (SOS) with a hard gate dielectric. Radiation effects in MOS devices are reviewed, and the problems associated with radiation tolerant CMOS/SOS devices are described. Some gate dielectric techniques which show promise in hardening CMOS circuits are presented, and the radiation behavior of Al2O3 gate dielectrics are described."
"Electrical measurements are described of grown silicon dioxide thin films irradiated by gamma rays, X-rays and broadband VUV light. The dependence of radiation-sensitivity on processing variations, including annealing temperature, is compared for unimplanted SiO2 and SiO2 implanted with aluminium, argon, xenon and cerium. The flatband voltage shift is suppressed under positive irradiation bias by each of these chemically disparate ions. This finding suggests that the implantation of ions at energies of several kilovolts, with fluences of 1014 to 1015 cm−2, improves hardness by the production of similar distributions of electron traps with densities of the order of 1012 traps cm−2 by lattice damage and not by the direct combination of the ion with intrinsic or radiation-induced hole traps. This is supported by observations that the effect anneals out gradually at temperatures between 300°C and 1000°C and that the same traps can be neutralised by injection of photoelectrons into the oxide. It is thus confirmed that ion implantation into the dielectric is a versatile method for producing radiation-tolerance under positive bias in silicon dioxide. A further finding is that broadband VUV light from a H2 discharge lamp can conveniently and closely simulate the radiation response caused by γ and X-rays in a wide range of dielectrics for MOS devices."
"It has previously been demonstrated2 that the growth conditions of thermal SiO2 can be optimized to give acceptable operating performance for P-MOS devices and circuits after ionizing radiation dose levels of 107 rads and above. Further work has since been done to apply this hardening technology to CMOS circuits, with very promising results. Also studied were the effects of adding HCl gettering, chrome doping, and aluminum ion implantation to the hardened SiO2. Each of these additions, when properly employed, was found to give improved hardening. The nature of these improvements is described in this paper, along with their applicability to the fabrication of CMOS circuits with improved hardness but which retain all the other advantages of the SiO2 gate insulator. Since all process variations were performed in the same laboratory under otherwise identical conditions, the results presented here represent a true comparison of the various hardening techniques."
"Data characterizing the transient annealing of the gate threshold voltage of contemporary CMOS transistors following exposure to pulsed ionizing radiation are presented and discussed. Devices tested during the study include those fabricated on both bulk silicon and silicon-on-sapphire substrates. Silicon dioxide and aluminum oxide gate dielectrics are evaluated. Leakage current phenomena associated with charge formation in dielectric substrates or dielectric isolation layers are also considered."
"Previous efforts to effectively investigate and model the high-field charging phenomenon in pyrolytic Al2O3 have been thwarted by the difficulty of separating the injection and trapping phenomena. Characterizing the injection is extremely difficult because the interface electric field varies as charge accumulates in traps, and the varying field produces rapidly varying currents, making it equally difficult to ascertain trapping behavior. In this work high-field electron injection and photoinjection into Al2O3 are investigated using new experimental techniques which maintain constant the interface fields and injection currents, thereby permitting independent determination of injection and trapping characteristics. It is shown that the electron trapping in Al2O3 MIS structures is strongly localized near the Si-Al2O3 and metal-Al2O3 interface regions. Comparisons of electron injection from the metal and from silicon show that the hypothetical native SiO2 layer at the Si-Al2O3 interface either is nonexistent or has no appreciable effect on injection properties. Studies of field and temperature dependence provide evidence that the electron injection occurs by trap-assisted tunneling."
"This paper reports on the results of an investigation of the interaction of a nuclear environment with a metal-gate, silicon nitride, silicon dioxide, silicon-on-sapphire memory device. The test device was a 63-bit (7 words by 9 bits) three-terminal device. The tests were as follows: (1) transient photocurrent, (2) transient annealing, (3) total dose, (4) survivability, and (5) neutron tests. Facilities at AFCRL were used in the first four tests and at the Aberdeen Pulse Reactor for the last test. Samples were irradiated under power. Both interrogated and passive words containing “1” and “0” states were investigated. Transient photocurrent and annealing data were obtained with the Linac operating in the electron mode. Electron energy was 10 MeV and pulse widths of 20 nanoseconds and 4. 5 microseconds were used. Total dose data was obtained with a cobalt-60 source as well as the reactor. A Flash X-ray generator operating in the electron mode (20-nanosecond pulse) was used to determine survivability rates."
"The effects of ionizing radiation on four different charge-coupled device structures have been investigated. Both shift registers and optical imaging devices have been considered. The electrical and imaging (where appropriate) performance of the devices were evaluated as a function of total gamma ray dose. The principal failure mechanisms have been identified for each particular device structure. Some conclusions about the relative radiation tolerance of the various device designs are drawn."
"In an investigation to characterize the radiation properties of a pilot line product capability for manufacture of MNOS memory arrays, a CMOS test vehicle proposed as the building block for the array electronics was tested in a nuclear environment. The test device was a CD4007 configuration fabricated with an unhardened SiO2 gate insulator on a sapphire substrate. Test devices were made with aluminum and silicon gates, and test samples were selected to satisfy the requirement of operating satisfactorily with a source-drain voltage ≤21.5 volts. All tests were conducted with a drain-source voltage of 20 volts and gate biases in the range of 0 to 20 volts. The tests were as follows: (1) transient photo-current, (2) transient annealing, (3) total dose, (4) survivability, and (5) neutrons. Facilities at AFCRL were used for the first four and the Aberdeen Pulse Reactor for the last test. The tests were conducted in the order listed above on different batches of samples for each test."
"High drain-leakage currents have been observed in n-channel SOS transistors after exposure to ionizing radiation. These currents could not be explained by the change in gate threshold voltage or by other radiation effects in the gate insulator. Two mechanisms were identified as being responsible for the radiation-induced leakage current. Charge trapping in the sapphire and the consequent formation of a channel at the silicon-sapphire interface is the major cause of the leakage current. Under some conditions, a smaller component of leakage current can also result from charge trapping in the silicon dioxide at island edges."
"The radiation induced charge trapping at the silicon sapphire interface and its effect on MIS/SOS device performance has been experimentally determined for a total ionizing dose up to 108 rads (Si). These effects were determined by measuring the electrical characteristics of three types of device structures fabricated in SOS material: MIS devices with hardened and unhardened gate insulators, JFET's and diodes. The main emphasis is on the use of novel JFET structures for characterizing the SOS interface by modulating the gate depletion region against the sapphire substrate. Micrographs are also presented which show radiation induced changes in the staining characteristics of angle lapped and stained sections of the SOS interface. The experimental results indicate that positive charge is trapped in the sapphire substrate near the silicon-sapphire interface due to the total ionizing radiation. A model of the radiation induced charge trapping at the silicon sapphire interface is proposed."
"The linear sapphire photoconductance approximation was used to model dose-rate effects in CMOS/SOS inverters. From this model, optimum values were derived for the ratio of n-channel to p-channel transistor gate width, thereby maximizing the dose-rate failure threshold."
"The model presented describes the transport of relativistic electrons through extended media in the presence of static external magnetic fields of arbitrary spatial orientation. The material geometry must be one-dimensional; however, since the model employs a full three-dimensional description of electron and photon trajectories, one can easily obtain selected two- or three-dimensional outputs from symmetry-breaking source distributions and field orientations. Model versatility is demonstrated through its application to three diverse areas of pulsed-electron-beam research."
"Analytical formulae are presented for the electron number current, energy current and energy deposition at the photon irradiated interface between different materials. Representative results are shown and compared with previous experimental data. Experimental results are given for the electron number current as a function of interface materials, photon spectrum and photon angle of incidence. The experimental results are compared to the predictions of the analytical formulae and the Monte Carlo code SANDYL."
"When a dielectric material is exposed to x- or γ-radiation, charge buildup occurs in regions of the dielectric near interfaces with dissimilar media. The charge buildup results from the divergence of photo-Compton current near the interface. The charge density acts as a source for an electric field. If one assumes a transient dielectric conductivity equal to the bulk radiation-induced conductivity of the dielectric, one can predict a sufficiently large x-ray generated space-charge field at high exposures to either limit the photo-Compton current — hence perturb the depth-dose profile in the dielectric — or initiate dielectric breakdown. There also occurs at the interface, however, a gradient in dose which should produce a gradient in transient conductivity. This conductivity gradient, it is shown, profoundly modifies the charge buildup and space-charge field in the dielectric. Calculations of current density, charge density, and space-charge field are presented for a planar gold/polyethylene interface irradiated by 30, 100, 200, and 1000 keV x-rays. It is found that for the lower x-ray energies the saturation space-charge field is too low to significantly perturb the depth-dose profile or initiate breakdown, but for the 1000 keV x-rays the saturation space-charge field may be sufficiently high to significantly perturb the depth-dose profile. In all cases, the charge density profile is strongly perturbed by the conduction currents, even for relatively low exposures."
"Irradiation of an insulator by gamma rays can produce voltage and charge buildups near thin layers of foreign material within the insulator. Measurements have been made of the current produced as a function of atomic number and thickness of the perturbing layer. Current was also measured as a function of separation from the perturbation, as was voltage buildup within the insulator close to the perturbation."
"Charge transport within cavities is a complicated phenomena, depending on injected beam parameters, pressure and the geometry of the cavity. If there are complex distributions of conductors and/or dielectrics within the structure, an understanding of how these can affect propogation is fundamental to categorizing IEMP phenomenology."
"In this paper is described an experiment to examine low energy electron beam transport (β ∼ 0.33) in a low impedance (one ohm) diode structure. Both charge and current neutralization as a function of pressure from 1 mTorr to 2 Torr were determined for the first time with an electron beam facility modified to permit rise times of 2 ns and pulse widths of 5 ns with a peak intensity of 25 A/cm2. The results of the experiment indicate that for electron beams with this short time duration, charge neutralization will occur for pressures in the range 200–300 mTorr. Furthermore, Langmuir oscillations were observed in the 200 to 300 mTorr pressure regime and late-time plasma “tails”, explained in terms of the magnetic diffusion time, were observed for pressures ≥ 400 mTorr. Current neutralization of the beam was observed at 900 mTorr. Qualitative agreement is obtained between theory and experiment."
"A fully dynamic, self-consistent computer code has been developed to solve internal electromagnetic pulse (IEMP) problems in cylindrical geometries excited by a pulse of ionizing radiation. Comparisons between the fully dynamic and previous quasi-static solutions are made, and the range of validity of the quasi-static approximation is defined. Results show that non-linear effects arising from field-perturbed electron motion significantly affect the range of validity of the quasi-static approximation."
"The particle method of numerical plasma simulation is applied to the calculation of surface currents on a metallic cylinder in air, exposed to an axially directed planar wavefront of gamma radiation. Assuming a collision-dominated plasma, the Compton electron trajectories, rate equations for the production of secondary electrons and the Maxwell equations are advanced self-consistently for each time step at all mesh cells in the finite difference solution. Numerical results presented include comparisons of self-consistent skin currents with results obtained by prescribing (no field reaction) the Compton current density and ionization rate proportional to the gamma flux. With a sin2 pulse of 40 ns duration and a relative air density of 1, the self-consistent surface current magnitudes lie considerably below prescribed source results for peak gamma dose rates ≥ 1011 Rad/sec. At 109 Rad/sec, the skin currents from the particle calculations are nearly identical with currents resulting from a prescribed source obtained from the electron dynamics in the absence of the Lorentz force."
"A technique utilizing a lumped-element approach has been developed for modeling the SGEMP response of a satellite-like structure. The space outside the structure is modeled by a number of current generators representing the real current produced by emitted electron charge, and capacitors are used to model the displacement current. Numerical solutions are obtained for a single electron moving away from a sphere, and compared with more exact solutions utilizing the Maxwell equations directly."
"We report the results of a study of replacement currents generated in multiconductor and semirigid coaxial cables during irradiation by low (20–100 keV) photons. Short samples (∼ 5cm) of each of thirteen cable types were exposed to filtered radiation from a plasma focus device and the induced center conductor currents were measured for vacuum and air environments. Vacuum responses could be correlated with the magnitude and location of small gaps between the cable elements and the dielectric material, while air responses depended on prior irradiation history, cable geometry, and applied center conductor bias potentials. An analytic computer code has been developed to evaluate the radiation response of these complex cables for a vacuum. Cable air responses are qualitatively discussed in terms of ionized gas kinetics."
"Three typical operational amplifiers were irradiated by a plasma focus to study their IEMP responses with and without superposition of TREE responses. The 30-kJ plasma focus device produced photons primarily in the 8–100 keV range with pulse widths typically in the range of 10–15 nsec. Pulses of electrons were also deposited on the external leads of the op amps to determine the characteristic responses. These units were operated in circuits with closed-loop gains ranging from 5 to 100. During direct irradiation of the op amps, it was found that the IEMP responses (caused by photoemission within the housings) dominated the TREE responses provided that the RC time for the deposited charge to drainto ground was longer than a characteristic op arnp response time. The gas normally contained inside hermetically-sealed op amp units enhanced their IEMP responses. For most op amps, charge deposited on the input leads dominated the response, but some types were also sensitive to charge deposited on other external leads such as those controlling the offset."
"An analytical method is described for calculating replacement currents in structures irradiated by x-ray photons, and the method is applied to the case of a structure consisting of plane parallel layers. The analysis consists of a computer-aided computation of photocurrent emission from the material layers; the photocurrents are then used as current generators in an equivalent circuit model, in which transient conductivity in air and dielectric layers is also incorporated. It is shown in particular that the presence of vacuum or air-filled void regions can have a large effect on the magnitude of the replacement currents. Calculated results are compared with experimental measurements for two specific test samples."
"We report the results of a study of the replacement currents generated in elements of a conventional plated-wire memory during irradiation by low energy (20–100 keV) photons. Measurements are analytically discussed in terms of IEMP induced-charge calculations and, for an air environment, ionized gas kinetics. It is experimentally demonstrated that the peak induced digit wire currents (per unit flux) can be reduced by at least a factor of 10 when the memory tunnel structure is filled with a dielectric oil."
"Photo-emission currents and their associated electromagnetic fields are generated when photons irradiate any system. When gas-filled cavities are irradiated, photo-ionization and collisional ionization of the gas can produce a background plasma which significantly alters the electromagnetic response within the cavity.1–3 Previous studies have concentrated on conditions within an irradiated cavity; in this paper we consider the modifications of circuit response caused by x-ray energy photons incident upon a small gas-filled cavity which is an element of an electrical circuit. Such a configuration is present in various practical devices."
"Results are presented on the permanent damage and transient photoresponse of complex monolithic MSI/LSI arrays representing a variety of both bipolar and MOS technologies. Unique aspects of MSI/LSI vulnerability are principally in the nature of the basic logic cells and the complexities of overall array performance evaluation. Considerations illustrated in permanent damage evaluation are complete performance evaluation, electrical bias conditions during radiation exposure, selection of sample sizes, and electrical pulse overstress effects. Considerations illustrated in the transient photoresponse are the dependence on ionizing radiation pulse-width, determination of worst-case logic operating conditions, and power-supply photocurrent. Analytical techniques are suggested as an essential aid in MSI/LSI characterization and testing."
"A theoretical examination of the effects of ionizing radiation on diffused resistors performed to ascertain the feasibility of their use in hardened dielectrically isolated integrated circuits is described. The two basic effects — conductivity modulation, which is generally insignificant or can easily be rendered so, and photocurrent generation, the consequences of which essentially determine the diffused resistor hardness — are studied. Results indicate that typical dielectrically isolated diffused resistors are quite invulnerable to ionizing radiation. Design guidelines to achieve optimum hardness are implied. Initial findings of radiation experiments performed on a diffused resistor test chip are reported. When transient leakage dissociated with the resistor structures is accounted for, the results substantiate the primary conclusions of the theoretical study."
"The response of Integrated Circuits (IC) to pulsed snd gated sine-wave stimuli can be used to develop reasonably accurate device models for EMP assessment. These IC models can then be used in conjunction with circuit and transfer function models to determine the failure threshold (upset and burnout) to postulated EMP distrubance."
"This paper shows how CMOS integrated circuits can be protected against electrical transients originating from nuclear explosions, static discharge, etc. First, the causes of transient failures are determined and then analyzed. Next, a wide range of protection devices are designed and evaluated. Finally, complete transient hardened logic gates are fabricated and tested to prove the feasibility of EMP hardened CMOS circuits."
"Results are presented on the application of previously developed simplified microcircuit modeling techniques to the analysis of an existing military subsystem in order to identify problem areas and demonstrate the state of the art. The D/A converter subsystem studied is part of the flight instrumentation used in the E4A (military version of 747) aircraft. It contains both digital and analog microcircuits, monolithic and hybrid, as well as discrete bipolar transistors and passive elements. The overall problem approach was that of an engineering vulnerability analysis on the subsystem. The individual components were experimentally characterized and modeled, and the component models were then interconnected to obtain a simulation of the entire D/A converter using an expanded version of the MINI-SCEPTRE computer code. Comparison of computer predictions and experimental data demonstrates reasonably good agreement to within the repeatability of component samples. The major problem is the long computer run time and associated cost for a single photoresponse prediction."
"Dc to dc converter circuits in an ionizing environment are vulnerable to two common failure modes: overcurrent and second breakdown. This paper presents a study of these failure modes using a combination of laboratory tests, computer simulations, and super flash X-ray (SFXR) tests. Special techniques were used to measure a single load line transition in an actual SFXR environment and to predict these critical operating conditions using a widely distributed circuit analysis computer code. The results of the laboratory electrical tests, digital computer simulations, and SFXR tests were in good agreement, placing confidence in the ability to simulate, measure, and predict the failure modes associated with this type of dc to dc converter in an SFXR environment."
"Radiation induced emitter crowding effects can precipitate an anomalous photocurrent response. Such a response would not be predicted by the usual computer simulation using a charge control representation of a bipolar transistor equipped with a primary photo-current source. Radiation induced emitter crowding effects are prevalent in large epitaxial power transistors which operate with low impedance loads where large photocurrent s are observed as a result of irradiation. A model has been developed which simulates radiation induced emitter crowding and it is applicable to most existing circuit analysis codes. Experimental data obtained from pulsing 50 watt silicon epitaxial power transistors with 50 nanosecond and 8 microsecond linear accelerator pulses in the electron beam mode show excellent agreement with the predicted results."
"An improved technique has been developed for the measurement of electron energy deposition versus depth profiles using thin foil calorimeters. A square-wave modulated beam is employed, and the time derivative of the thermocouple signal is measured at a specified time after beam switch. The method and apparatus are described, and results are presented for Al and Ta for 0.3, 0.5, and 1.0 MeV normally incident electrons. Data are also presented for the same energies and 60° (relative to normal) incidence in Al. Deposition data in a layered Ta and Al system at 1.0 and 0.5 MeV energy (normal incidence) are also presented."
"The unusually complex thermoluminescence obtained from Harshaw dosimeter type TLD-100 LiF crystals has been studied with apparatus for measuring emission intensity simultaneously as a function of both wavelength and sample temperature. A separate signal averaged spectrum is obtained at 5.5 C temperature intervals. Data reduction includes all corrections needed to obtain curves of absolute intensity vs photon energy. Numerous results were obtained from crystals exposed to Co60 gamma-ray doses extending from 5 &time; 102 to 5 &time; 107 R. All emission spectra could be resolved into Gaussian shaped bands using a computerized best-fit procedure. Below 105 R all spectra contain three bands at roughly 3.01, 2.90, and 2.71 eV with full widths of 0.90, 0.72, and 0.96 eV; the precise values vary slightly with temperature. Above 105 R additional bands appear at 2.98 and 2.50 eV, and with increasing exposure the 2.90 and 2.71 eV bands diminish in intensity. At doses greater than 4 or 5 &time; 106 R additional bands appear at 4.0, 2.3, and 1.5 eV. In the range usually used for dosimetry, at least the 3 bands at 3.01, 2.90, and 2.71 eV contribute to the thermoluminescence. Glow curves for each of these emission bands were constructed from the resolved Gaussian shaped bands. They contain 8, 3, and 5 prominent peaks. In contrast, glow curves for unresolved spectra contain at least 8 glow peaks, and each peak can contain undetermined contributions from 1, 2, or 3 emission centers. All glow peaks analyzed to date can be fitted by the first-order expression dn/dt = − ns exp (-E/kT). However, the E and s values obtained for the 190 C peak and perhaps some of the other high temperature peaks are too large to be meaningful; thus the kinetics for this peak, and possibly other high temperature peaks, must be complex. To date, thirteen glow peaks have been identified. At low doses the emission is confined to the low temperature glow peaks. With increasing dose the emission intensity increases and progressively shifts to higher temperature peaks. The maximum intensity occurs at 106 R. At higher doses the emission is reduced but occurs among the highest temperature peaks."
"Two high-resolution charged particle spectrometers employing silicon surface-barrier detectors have been operated in an 800 km altitude polar orbit for a 26-month period between October 1971 and December 1973-Based on existing trapped radiation models and the measured solar flare environment during this period the detectors were exposed to a proton fluence of 2.8 &time; 1013 protons/cm2 at energies > 400 keV and an electron fluence of 4.5 &time; 1013 electrons/cm2 at energies > 50 keV. High-resolution pulse height spectra of the alpha particles from low-intensity Americium-241 in-flight calibration sources show that the resolutions of the detectors did not degrade more than 5 percent and that the gains of the system did not vary more than 1.2 percent as a result of this exposure. Two aspects of detector operation are considered responsible for this performance. First, the incident detectors were operated with the rear, aluminum contact exposed to the radiation environment instead of the front, gold contact. The more intense lower energy radiation is therefore stopped in the rear ohmic contact region instead of in the front surface-barrier junction region and the overall damage effects are significantly reduced. Second, a detector bias technique was employed that automatically maintained a constant depletion potential across the detector independent of variations in leakage current due to radiation damage."
"Relatively permanent space-charge fields can be established in Ta-Ta2O5-MnO2 capacitor structures by any of the following. 1. Ionizing radiation with forward bias (tantalum electrode positive), 2. Reverse bias without radiation, 3. Forward bias without radiation. All of the capacitors store charge by the first two mechanisms. Only when a permanent space-charge polarization field can be established by condition 3 can the unit be called a “maverick”. The existence of a space-charge field is manifested when the capacitor is exposed to radiation at no bias or low forward bias. An anomalously large release is observed as the space charge is relaxed by the ionization-generated carriers. The polarization is relaxed by successive radiation pulses, and the normal zero-bias signal is finally obtained. The polarization behavior arises due to nonuniform trapping of charge in the oxide. In a normal capacitor, the polarization under irradiation occurs when the ionized electrons and holes are separated by the electric field in the oxide. Since the time and radiation history of the charge release in a maverick is similar to the charge release in a polarized normal capacitor, mavericks are apparently capacitors that can become polarized in the absence of radiation — for example, just due to an applied bias. This model has been simulated with the computer code PN, and the characteristics of the experimental data are reproduced. A maverick capacitor can be either latent or manifest, and a simple test for the zero-bias radiation response will not necessarily reveal a maverick unless a space-charge field has previously been established. These results are used to suggest tests to eliminate mavericks from the population."
"A method of screening bipolar transistors for total dose surface effects using a scanning electron microscope (SEM) is described. This screening technique is implemented by irradiation of a selected pattern of dice on each wafer. The electron-induced damage from the SEM is shown to correlate with equivalent total dose irradiations from a Co60 source. It is also shown that the degradation of the selected dice is characteristic of the remaining dice on the wafer."
"Low-energy electron irradiation of complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) devices has been correlated to cobalt-60 gamma irradiation in terms of oxide space charges and interface states.1 This paper reports on the results obtained using the low-energy electron beam of a standard commercial scanning-electron-microscope (SEM) for in-process hardness assurance screening and as a tool for rapid evaluation of process variations designed to improve total-dose radiation hardness. The techniques for SEM testing are described, and the results of correlation studies of radiation effects produced by the SEM, gamma radiation (Co-60), and 106-eV sources compared. The variance in total dose radiation hardness over a single wafer and from wafer to wafer has been investigated for the CMOS CD-4007 array and the results are reported."
"Methods are discussed for hardness assurance qualification screens for quartz crystal resonant devices. Verifying that the quartz bar has been properly swept and ensuring device traceability to that bar may be adequate for filter applications and some oscillators. For precision resonators, the radiation testing of each resonator is the only known way to be certain that a defective resonator was not obtained. Recommendations for particular tests are given."
"Correlation and screening techniques for neutron degradation of TTL integrated circuits have been examined at three different levels: measurements restricted to normal electrical leads, measurements using special internal leads, and measurements with a special chip level breakout transistor. The results of this study show much higher prediction accuracies for neutron degradation when the special lead or breakout transistor measurements are used. The special lead approach can be implemented with DC measurements, and it is feasible to make these measurements at the wafer probe level to eliminate the necessity of changing the pinout on the packaged device. These special leads can be added to radiation-hardened circuits to optimize their application to high reliability systems."
"The single photoelectron response of several fast phototubes (RTC 56 DUVP, PM 2106, XP 1021, XP 1210 and RCA 8850, C 31024) has been measured using a sampling technique in conjunction with short light pulses and a fast oscilloscope."
"A spark chamber track finding program has been written. The accuracy of the location of the track is good, and if the chamber contains many spurious sparks the computation time is much less than the time used by a least squares fit routine. Multiple tracks can be found and interaction vertices can thereby be determined."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "As is customary in these addresses, I would like to say that I appreciate the opportunity to talk with you today. When I was first called concerning suggestions for the program, I was hesitant to participate in that my involvement in traditional Nuclear Medicine research has diminished considerably over the past year. Upon further reflection, however, I recognized the opportunity that this would provide, not only for me to achieve the personal satisfaction of displaying the fruits of our recent research, but, also, to think with you on the issue on how we may better be able to apply enormous intellectual resources held in the engineering community to the solution of increasingly important medical problems. I feel strongly that there is need to close the gap between those that hold the tools which may ultimately be applied to enhance the quality of human life through the delivery of better health care, and those of us who are charged with the responsibility of that delivery."
"Diagnostic procedures used in Nuclear Medicine are designed to provide information about the static and/or dynamic distribution of some particular stable or radioactive material within the patient, as well as the quantity of the material present. Thus, the static distribution of 131I in the thyroid indicates the structure of the gland, whereas changes in the distribution or in the quantity present indicate its rate of functioning. A remarkable variety of techniques, based on emission, transmission, fluorescence, and incoherent holographic imaging principles, have been developed. Both moving and fixed radiation detectors are used, and these produce planar and 3-D projections and transverse sections of the object of interest. In general, the image quality is determined by detector characteristics such as sensitivity, spatial resolution, and depth of field, as well as by the examination time, object contrast, and object intensity, which is always severely limited in the interest of a low radiation dose to the patient. Image processing techniques can be used to improve image quality by removing certain artifacts and by producing a degree of sharpening that is limited by the signal-to-noise ratio. Incoherent holography and optimum-weighted multichannel imaging are presented as two approaches to increasing the signal-to-noise ratio. Alternative criteria for the evaluation of imaging procedures are presented, with an emphasis on the use of ROC curves to describe observer performance."
"This paper considers the data handling aspects of a computer system for routine use in an intensive care situation. A distinction is made between the display of continuous analogue signals (monitoring) and the extraction of clinical values from the signals (measurement). Data acquisition is examined, with a comparison between central multiplexing and local processing as a means of extracting clinical values. Preprocessing, data storage and main processing are discussed with an emphasis on cost reduction. Display requirements are outlined and currently available means of implementation compared. An overall design philosophy is proposed and a typical cost distribution suggested."
"Devices which differ only iin emitter periphery were subjected to ionizing radiation to investigate the influence of emitter periphery on hFE degradation. The data indicate that, within reasonable limits, the increase in base current from ionizing radiation is directly proportional to the length of the emitter periphery. However, differences in fabrication techniques, passivation materials and processing, and silicon crystal orientation may very well have a greater influence on the degradation from ionizing radiation than the emitter periphery."
"The December 1973 issue of the IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol, NS-20, No. 6, included a book review of \"Reactor Physics,\" by Paul F. Zweifel, inproperly identified as having been made by Paul Miller. This review was made by Professor Warren F. Miller, Jr., of Northwestern University."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "The study presents application of methods of ascertaining the three-dimensional distribution of isotope concentration or density in nuclear medicine, and differs from previous three-dimensional reconstruction efforts of astrophysics, electron microscopy, and X-ray radiology in that statistically poor measurements and photon attenuation are taken into account by the algorithm. The methods discussed are applicable to photon or heavy ion transmission radiography as well as emission imaging."
"The Fourier reconstruction may be viewed simply in the spatial domain as the sum of each line integral times a weighting function of the distance from the line to the point of reconstruction. A modified weighting function simultaneously achieves accuracy, simplicity, low computation time, as well as low sensitivity to noise. Using a simulated phantom, the authors compare the Fourier algorithm and a search algorithm. The search algorithm required 12 iterations to obtain a reconstruction of accuracy and resolution comparable to that of the Fourier reconstruction, and was more sensitive to noise. To speed the search algorithm by using fewer interactions leaves decreased resolution in the region just inside the skull which could mask a subdural hematoma."
"General views on the physical aspects, mathematical image reconstruction methods and algorithms, and associated detection electronics are given. Transmission techniques are emphasized; however, the technique can be applied to emission studies, for instance in positron camera."
"A work-in-progress report is presented dealing with several methods of iterative 3-dimensional reconstruction that are more accurate than the usual methods, and the behavior of a number of algorithms upon varying the number of iterations, the number of projections, the counts per projection, and the field of view of the detector."
"Algebraic reconstruction techniques (ART) were introduced by Gordon et al. (1970) for solving the problem of three dimensional reconstruction from projections in electron microscopy and radiology. An X-ray photograph represents the projection of the three-dimensional distribution of X-ray densities within the body onto a two-dimensional plane. A finite number of such photographs taken at different angles allows one to reconstruct an estimate of the original 3-D densities. The ART algorithms for solving this problem have a simple intuitive basis. Each projected density is thrown back across the higher dimensional region from whence it came, with repeated corrections to bring each projection of the estimate into agreement with the corresponding measured projection."
"Longman Group Limited, London (1972). 206 pp. £3.50; Halstead Press, New York, N.Y. (1973), $15.00 6″× 9″ size."
"Academic Press, New York, N.Y., 1971, 367 pages, size 6″×9″, $19.50."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "A snap-off constant fraction timing discriminator has been designed, involving no critical adjustments and free of shape limitations. The instrument accepts both short pulses from photo-multipliers (using fast or slow scintillators) and tail pulses from low-noise preamplifiers. Its performance (without rejecting events close to the detector junction) was checked with the aid of fast and slow scintillators and Ge(Li) detectors. Typical time resolutions (measured at a dynamic range of 100:1) were 0.41 nsec FWHM or 0.92 nsec FWTM for Co60 with a pair of fast scintillators, and 3.85 nsec FWHM or 8.10 nsec FWTM for Na22 with a 7% efficiency closed-end Ge(Li) detector in the stop channel."
"Efforts towards the utilization of nuclear power in desalination to satisfy Egypt's long term water needs considered natural uranium heavy water moderated and cooled reactors as one of the promising prototypes. A feasibility study for a 40 MWth pilot plant was conducted and the main core features were determined. The concept comprised natural uranium metallic fuel, heavy water moderator and coolant in separate circuits, and aluminium alloy cladding and structural material. The design included a parametric investigation to determine optimum configurations. Results were shown giving cell and core details."
"The capacitors were irradiated with an electron beam at doses of 1011 to 1017 electrons/cm2 and energies of 5 kV and 15 kV. C-V measurements were made to characterise the effects of irradiation. The C-V curves revealed a positive fixed charge accumulation in the oxide at dose levels above 1013 electrons/cm2. In the thicker oxide samples at 5 kV there was evidence of negative charge trapping at the lower dose levels changing to positive at the highest dose. In all cases, there was a reversal in the sense of the hysteresis effects in the C-V curves above 1015 electrons/cm2, implying slow surface states which could follow the d.c. bias voltage but not the a.c. test signal. There was also a marked increase in the magnitude of the turn-on voltage for strong inversion implying an increase in fast surface states or lateral ionic charge nonuniformities."
"Pulse injection tests on germanium gold-bonded diodes showed that failure due to second breakdown may occur at lower power levels in the forward direction than in the reverse direction. The result is shown to be due to the hemispherical geometry of the junction and the associated spatial variation of the conductivity modulation. Variation between devices of different manufacturers is noted."
"A method is developed for calculating the time dispersion of amplitude and risetime compensated (ARC) timing with germanium planar detectors. Universal curves for pulse shape dependent timing error and for time jitter indicate that there is an optimum ratio between the inverted and delayed pulses which leads to the best realization of a given experimental objective. Curves for the corresponding system parameters are given. It is shown that ARC timing with Ge planar detectors is always capable of giving superior performance than constant fraction timing. The work includes quantitative comparison with experimental results published elsewhere."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
 "For quite some time the citizens of this area of eastern New England and Cape Cod, where your editor has his summer residence, have been bombarded with a steady stream of propaganda concerning the unsafe nature of nuclear reactors for power generation. The current target is Boston Edison's Pilgrim 1 plant, and the Union of Concerned Scientists have set up headquarters in Plymouth and have issued news releases alleging that the plant represents a continuous hazard to the people of this community. One of the leaders of the UCS, acting as an intervenor, succeeded in halting operation of this plant for several months, until the go-ahead was finally given."
"The electric field dependence of air conductivity allows the presence of a metal body to influence the electromagnetic fields generated by an ionizing radiation environment. The numerically determined results illustrate that the interaction can be significant, particularly in weakly ionized media or at low air pressure when air breakdown at the extremities of metallic structures can occur."
"The theory of operation and experimental test results of a microwave instrument for measuring pressure and temperature in liquid sodium are described. At discrete frequencies, the single, all-metal, hollow cylindrical sensor absorbs energy provided by a wide-bandwidth sweep-frequency microwave oscillator. For the designed sensor, the frequencies of two detected absorption signals relate to temperature whereas the difference frequency relates to pressure. Operational characteristics of the sensor and associated instrumentation were determined over a temperature range of 350 to 1100°F and over a pressure range from atmospheric to 190 psia. Time response of the unit for pressure transients was also ascertained. Total duration of the test approximated 350 hours."
"The population of permanent neutron degradation of base current per unit neutron fluence is normally distributed. The standard deviation of the population is about 10% of the mean degradation. This information is used to estimate circuit failures after a neutron pulse."
"Provides design curves which determine optimum resistor or inductor values for surge protection, provided that an upper bound on surge duration and circuit supply voltages are known. The resistor or inductor values are optimized in the sense that maximum theoretical energy transfers to semiconductor junctions are equated to predetermined burnout thresholds."
"Describes a new principle of obtaining an accurate wide range logarithmic response to random pulse rates. The logarithmic law is achieved by summing the averaged outputs of a chain of flip-flops which are all set (or reset) by the common train of random input pulses and which are reset (or set) by different but related clock rates obtained from clock frequency divider circuits. A practical log-ratemeter is described which utilises this principle and which illustrates the inherent simplicity, stability, wide range potential and designability of the circuit involved. This ratemeter uses transistor transistor logic and covers the range 1 to 107 counts per second."
"Academic Press, New York, 1974, 181 pages, $18.50."
"Oxford University Press, London and New York, 1972. 376 pages. $18.75. Tables, Appendices, Bibliography."
"1972, Fifth Edition, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., New York, N. Y. $13.50."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisements."
"A three-day format of technical sessions will be just one of the innovations at this year's IEEE International Convention and Exposition (IEEE INTERCON) in New York City on March 26–29. The exhibits will occupy two floors of the New York Coliseum and the technical program sessions will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
"Appointment of the new Federal Energy head, William R. Simon, establishes close ties between energy conservation measures and U.S. Fiscal Policy. Simon retains his post as Treasury Deputy Secretary under George P. Schultz. The energy czar, a former investment banker, is known as a “tough decision maker.”"
"A new voice system, developed by RCA, will provide improved communications between all stations of the U.S. Navy landing helicopter assault (LHA) ships. The LHAs are now under construction by Ingalls Shipbuilding Division of Litton Industries at Pascagoula, Miss."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"What should be the role of the technologist in communicating with the “average citizen,” who knows only that fuel and electric power are in such short supply that his life style is affected? A desirable outcome that could result from a more thorough delineation of the many tradeoffs available to the U.S. and other developed countries in piloting their way to a more stable and satisfactory world energy situation is a citizenry that is “comfortable” in its knowledge that options do exist. A public that is aware of the real alternatives along with their consequences is less likely to react in ways that cause the situation to deteriorate. Such was the conclusion of a workshop of concerned engineers and scientists meeting recently on the topic of energy resources.∗"
"The experts analyze the immediate past to help define significant hard/software trends for the year ahead. Solid-state and computer technology pervade many of the most significant new electrical/electronic developments."
"Ever-increasing demands for transmission bandwidth are pressing communications technology towards light-frequencies. The aim is to enlarge the strained information-carrying capacity of atmosphere-borne communications and, equally vital, to increase the number and capacity of earth-bound channels."
"Millions of computer terminals are expected to dot the U.S. landscape during the next few years, and they will tie into tens of thousands of interconnected computers in hundreds of different commercial, industrial, Government, and educational networks. The needed links between widely dispersed equipment will be provided by data communications facilities."
"The great new fact in computer technology is that we now have large-scale integrated microprocessors. Major semiconductor manufacturers are beginning to supply off-the-shelf microprocessors, and sixteen-bit units with 2- to 3-μs instruction times are now available in chip form for about $150."
"Automation was the key to progress for industrial systems during 1973, with the second-generation controller emerging as the most exciting system and the thyristor the all-pervasive device."
"The growth of consumer electronics, especially in hand-held calculators, electronic watches, and the burgeoning automotive market has spurred development of low-cost, low-power displays. The leading contenders at this time are light-emitting diodes, liquid crystals, and plasma displays. Also, undergoing serious development are potential substitutes for the cathode ray tube in large displays and in television. The strong interest in this new field, coupled with rapid strides being made in developing new display techniques and lowering production costs, makes display technology one of the most dynamic areas of electronics."
"At the outset of this new year, electric power engineers are still confronted by a forecast of increased electric energy requirements that, apparently, have not been modified by the tightening fuel/energy bind."
"Similar perhaps in technologies, 1973 transportation schemes differed considerably in priorities from nation to nation. The U.S., while toying with the interurban Amtrak network, primarily concentrated on its commuter plans — BART, its already operating model system, and PRT (personalized rapid transit), a scheme for the urban future."
"Where high-level technology is concerned, questions of cost-benefits and funding now often rival the once dominant hardware and engineering problems as major program challenges. Space shuttle proponents point to significant savings expected over the comparatively inefficient Saturn/Apollo launch and recovery system and indicate that a wide cross section of scientific interests will profit from direct access to extraterrestrial experimentation. Even engineering work on unmanned flights is geared toward squeezing a better power/weight ratio out of solar cells, storage batteries, and power control electronics. As a direct result of the Mideast war, budgeting for U.S. military R&D must now confront the immediate challenges of new Soviet ECM and their SA-6 surface-to-air missile as opposed to projected and perhaps speculative benefits claimed for the billion dollar Trident submarine program."
"Evidence of the vast inroads of electronics into the consumer market is all around us. The steady drop in integrated circuit costs has, on the one hand, put $29.95 calculators on the market and, on the other, made possible the introduction of sophisticated electronic cameras, electronic ranges, and — want it or not — seat-belt interlock systems for the family car.1,2 Consumer products that would have been too expensive to be marketable a few years ago — if, indeed, they could have been produced at all — are now on the market and all indications point to the fact that more are on the way."
"Health care delivery today is beset by mounting costs and the demand for better care from an ever-increasing portion of the population. It would seem, then, that any device, technique, or system that could help reduce costs and/or do a job faster or better should be welcomed with open arms. But even though technology can help reduce costs — if quality remains fixed — it is more apt to raise costs when improving quality in some manner. And even then, according to some physicians1, the major emphasis on technology in the health care system has been at the end point — in treatment, rather than in diagnosis. It is easier to instrument an intensive care unit with monitors, for example, than it is to design systems that will permit early identification of medical problems."
"In view of 1973's $2.5 billion market for instruments and controls — which according to the U.S. Department of Commerce reflects an overall 11-percent increase in total electronics business over 1972 — there is every indication that the instrumentation market will continue to thrive in 1974."
"Be they living animals, machine systems, or human societies, the internal control and communication functions can be broken down and studied with the tools of systems engineering and cybernetics. This is a diverse field encompassing (a) integration of communication, control, cybernetics, and systems theories; (b) development of systems engineering technology; and (c) practical applications at both the hardware and software levels."
"As the year begins, the social impact of technology has never been more deeply felt across the globe. In the United. States, by mid-November of last year, President Nixon and his advisors were predicting a 17-percent fuel storage. Simultaneously, Senator Henry M. Jackson (D — Wash.) was warning of a 24-percent shortage. Further, a debate was raging over the identity of the villains responsible for the crisis. And the stage was set for a furious debate over methods to alleviate and eventually resolve the crisis."
"The IEEE has set up a Search Committee to seek a new General Manager, according to a recent announcement by Harold Chestnut, IEEE President for 1973, and Executive Director Donald G. Fink."
"It may become just another buzz word, but its coiners hope not. “Design to cost” (DTC), a term that originated within the Dept. of Defense, has been embraced and elaborated as a concept by a task force of the Defense Science Board. The charter of the group was implicit in its title: “Task Force on Reducing Costs of Defense Systems Acquisition.” Under the chairmanship of J. Fred Bucy, Jr., executive vice president of Texas Instruments Incorporated, the task force's members were chosen to include those having a wide variety of experience in commercial industry. In a report prepared during 1973 at the request of the Office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (ODDR&E), the task force made several recommendations to the Department of Defense which it urged DOD to implement, or to use as goals for cost reduction. Already, as a result of the report, several directives concerning implementation have been issued by DOD. But to equate this action with widespread acceptance or even understanding of DTC would be a mistake. At EASCON last fall, a panel chaired by Jacques S. Gansler, assistant director for planning for ODDR&E, discussed the proposed technique."
"Good indicators of what's ahead in solid state are found annually at the International Solid State Circuits Conference. The 1974 meeting, to be held next month, is no exception. The program reveals a healthy crop of R&D spectaculars, yet more than half of the papers deal with conventional design, processing, and fabrication techniques. One member of the technical program committee, IBM's David Pricer, characterized the conference climate: “Last year we presented ideas and this year we are trying to make them practical.” In preparation for producing this special report, Spectrum talked with several ISSCC session chairmen to gain an insight into the developments that will be detailed at the conference."
"Three items of information are available to any author planning to submit a manuscript to an IEEE publication. Published separately in past issues of IEEE Spectrum, these writing guides may now be obtained as a single reprint entitled “Information for IEEE Authors” from the IEEE Editorial Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York, N.Y. 10017."
"The term virtual memory refers to the programmer's view of memory as a series of contiguous locations, while the actual physical memory space he uses is scattered in various locations."
 "This 8-page booklet describes how a minicomputer and BASIC language were used in a practical power transformer design and costing program."
"At no lime in the history of man since Adam and Eve has human consumption been so conspicuous — and disastrous — as today. In the space of a few years, man has had to confront the dire implications of worldwide environmental pollution, resource depletion, overcrowding, and the countless logistics problems associated with servicing human needs."
"The IEEE publications listed are now available or will be soon. Single copies may be ordered by using the order form on page 110 of this issue. When ordering, please be certain to include the volume number, issue number, month, and year and the title of the publication. Copies of individual articles are not available."
"Of a total of $32.5 billion to be spent for R&D in the U.S. in 1974, compared to an estimated $30.1 billion in 1973, industry itself will fund $13.7 billion while performing about 68 percent of all research. According to the annual R&D forecast of the Battelle-Columbus Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio, industry is one of the fastest growing sources of R&D support. But the U.S. Government continues to be the big spender: $16.8 billion in 1974. Colleges and universities will spend about $1.5 billion and other not-for-profit institutions, such as Battelle, will spend $480 million. The four major industry groups that are expected to increase their R&D funding in 1974 at a rate greater than the rate of inflation are: instruments and related products, food and kindred products, chemicals, and electric machinery."
"J. R. Costa de Lacerda has been elected Director of Region 9 for the 1974–75 term, succeeding Ernesto Obregon of Bogota, Colombia. The new Director is with IEF Controles Automaticos S.A., Sao Paulo, Brazil."
"Listed below are special issues of IEEE publications currently being planned, showing tentative date of publication. Further information may be obtained from the issue organizer, if listed below, or the editor of the publication as listed on pp. 101–102 of this issue of Spectrum."
"Advertisement: The IEEE Standards listed are the most recent ones issued. Copies may be ordered by using the order form on page 110 of this issue. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. When ordering, please use the identifying numbers as well as the title of the Standard. A complete list of Standards is obtainable on request."
"Advertisement: The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Please use the order form on page 110 of this issue. When ordering, please be certain to include the identifying numbers that appear with the publication title as well as the title itself."
"Advertisement: This listing includes recently issued IEEE Educational Aids. Please use the order form on page 110 of this issue to obtain any of them in which you are interested. Include the identifying number as well as the title of the particular item."
 "Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides a notice of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"This standard applies to the electric systems in stationary single unit and multi-unit nuclear power generating stations that provide electric power to the Class IE equipment. The electric systems included are comprised of the following interrelated systems: (1)alternating-current power systems, (2) direct-current power systems, (3) vital instrumentation and control power systems. This standard also contains requirements for non-Class IE interfaces such as the preferred power supply. The purpose of this standard is to provide: the principal design criteria and the design features of the Class IE power systems that enable the systems to meet their functional requirement under the conditions produced by the applicable design basis events; and the requirements for surveillance of the class IE power system."
"This document describes the basic requirements for qualifying Class IE equipment and interfaces that are to be used in nuclear power generating stations. The requirements presented include the principles, procedures, and methods of qualification. These qualification requirements, when met, will confirm the adequacy of the equipment design under normal, abnormal, design basis event, post design basis event, and containment test conditions for the performance of Class IE functions."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"The concept of copyright has greatly changed through the years, both in importance and definition. The conflict of personal right of ownership versus the public welfare has grown increasingly complex in recent times. A familiarity with the historical perspective is necessary to understand these developments. Even today, the Copyright Revision Bill lies before Congress and long-awaited decisions will be made to shape events in the immediate future. These decisions will affect the student and the professional alike by their effect on the availability of materials to everyone. The ease and availability of present-day photocopying necessarily will affect the nature of the decisions. This paper gives an overview of the historical background, and status of present law, and the possible future role of copyright."
"The R&D manager is responsible for the management of the technical information flow into and within his organization. Complicating his management task is the fact that a large amount of such information flows in informal, unplanned networks. Playing key roles in these informal information networks are a few special communicators (1) who act as information focal points, (2) who seem to have special access to information sources, and (3) who are involved in a relatively large number of information transactions. It may be possible for the R&D manager to influence informal networks in a positive way be identifying special communicators, by further enhancing their exposure to information, and by giving them special consideration in the allocation of information-related resources."
"ANMC (American National Metric Council), has spent considerable effort and some funds in trying to establish consistent spelling for the basic measures of length (meter/metre) and volume (liter/litre). Here is a set of arguments that was prepared by a task force of ANMC to indicate the reasoning on both sides of the question."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"As a man who once worked and earned his living as an engineer, I am honored that you have asked me to talk with you this morning on the general subject of communications."
"The interface between science and engineering has been characterized as an almost impermeable membrane impeding the interchange of information between the two activities. Evidence presented here suggests that this model is insufficient to describe the complex interaction of sciences and engineering through the formal communication system of science. Engineers who publish are clearly more literature-conscious, and were found to have a stronger science orientation than is typically ascribed to the average engineer."
"Case history of strategic planning for highly successful technical publicity and public relations program to promote increased sales of a mature product line with stable market. Emphasizes study approach to: (1) Uncover problems which seem to block increased sales; (2) Identify opportunities for communicating with specifying/buying influences; and (3) Determine communications ammunition (news and technical or marketing information) that editors, meeting program chairmen, etc. would feel is worth communicating to their readers or members."
"Careless use of certain pronouns in technical writing today causes communication to be a fuzzy and inept as many other writing flaws. The pronouns most commonly misused are the demonstratives, this and that with their plurals these and those; such relatives as which, who, whom, and that, and the anticipatory expletive it. Eliminating the irritating and confusing aspects of these often misused pronouns is simple. More effective and efficient technical communication will result."
  "Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
 "An experimental program was designed to test the effect of using various sources of index terms on retrieval effectiveness and costs. The purpose of the experimental program was to provide quantitative data for making a management decision on indexing procedures for an information storage and retrieval system. The tradeoff between input cost and retrieval effectiveness was the primary factor in the decision. The experiment was designed to provide the needed data. The full technical document text was divided into five categories: title; abstract; table of contents and lists of figures and tables; author-assigned keywords; and the body. An experimental data base of technical documents was created. Manual indexing using thesaurus controlled keywords was performed. The index term source by category and the time required for indexing by category were recorded."
"In any situation in which a written communication is produced, eight variables and three processes are present. The variables are the occasion, the author, the subject, the purpose, the supporting facilities, time, the communication itself, and the recipient. The processes are the preparation, transmission, and consideration and use of the communication. The success of the communication is governed largely by the effectiveness with which the author evaluates the situation and produces a communication appropriate to the attainment of his purposes within it. Fortuitous circumstances beyond the control of the author (and of which he may be unaware) may affect the likelihood that the communication will be successful."
"A general discussion on linguistics. The author discusses the meaning of words, their sound and redundancies."
"A method is proposed for writing journal papers in increments during the progress of the engineering project in a way that will actually aid the development work. Papers written in this manner are not merely a report of work done in the laboratory; instead, they combine the discipline of formal writing with the discipline of engineering effort. The proposed method applies to any kind of engineering manuscript: theoretical, analytical, experimental, or developmental. Specific guidelines are offered for preparing a manuscript in this way and some unique advantages of the method are shown."
"Complexity of information storage and retrieval systems may range from simple, personal desk file indexes to interactive computer systems operating on large data bases. All of these systems have certain common characteristics that help to bring the needed information and the investigator together. The commonality of these elements is discussed, so that the user may understand what he can and cannot expect from a retrieval system."
  "The United States controlled thermonuclear research program has made great advances in the past few years, and plasma scientists can be justifiably proud of their contributions. The heuristic approaches of 20 years ago led to the rapid development of plasma production and heating techniques, and to the attainment of reactor level plasma densities in the 1950's and thermonuclear temperatures in the early 1960's. Since then the program has matured considerably with improved understanding of associated plasma problems. Following the identification of a host of macro-and micro-plasma instabilities, plasma confinement times began to increase markedly in the mid-1960's. And in the 1970's the relationship between plasma theory and experiment has grown even healthier, with experiments designed according to theory actually behaving as predicted. These recent successes have led to the prediction that the scientific feasibility of net power production from fusion might be demonstrated even before 1980, with the commercial application of fusion power following around the turn of the century."
"The decaying plasmas in neon and xenon were subjected to ~3 GHz absorption at `plasma resonance.' The dependence of the second harmonic emission on the input excitation amplitude and neutral gas pressure is described. Low frequency amplitude fluctuations are also observed on the second harmonic amplitude."
"An explanation for the higher sparking potential values of the Paschen minimum measured in concentric coaxial fields compared to uniform fields is given. The failure of the similarity theorem in some gases when applied to the sparking potentials in uniform fields at the Paschen minimum is attributed to non-equilibrium ionization effects."
"With a single wire conductor, microwave radiation can be guided through a plasma so that high spatial resolution (~0.5 cm) can be realized at X-band frequencies (λ0≃3 cm). Dispersion relations for a single wire surrounded by a longitudinally magnetized plasma have been calculated. A Fabry-Perot single wire interferometer for measurements in magnetized flowing plasmas (U~107 cm/sec) with a fast time resolution (~50 nanoseconds) has been built and calibrated, and used for electron density measurements."
"The device described reclaims the energy lost by the reactor through leakage of charged particles. Energy selection is accomplished through the angular dependence of transmission through a system of ribbon grids resembling a venetian blind. In contrast to previously described converters in which the beam of ions from the reactor is expanded in a flat fan-like expander, the beam in this device is expanded in two directions in a conical expander. Problems of grid construction, radiation damage, grid heating, and vacuum pumping are discussed. The efficiency is estimated to be 50% for a two-stage collector and 65% for a four-stage collector. Further development of the basic concept could possibly raise the efficiency to as high as 75%. Optimized designs might increase the power handled by a factor of several without significantly increasing the unit cost, thus greatly lowering the cost/kW."
"Reviews four experimentally measured properties of waves which propagate in a medium having a dispersion relation D(k,ω)=1-ω02/ω2+k02/k2=0 where ω0 and k0 are characteristics of the medium. A transmission line, ion acoustic waves and electron plasma waves are examined and some similarity is found in their properties."
"This paper describes a quantitative experimental confirmation of a recent theory for large-signal parametric instabilities in IMPATT diode circuits. The relevant parts of the theory are presented in a concise form. A graphical technique is given that is useful for analyzing circuit stability. A sufficient (though not necessary) condition for well-behaved circuits is also studied, and several diagrams are presented that may prove useful to circuit designers."
"The noise introduced into charge packets transferred through and stored in charge-transfer devices is calculated in a manner that includes all important relaxation, suppression, and correlation effects. First, the noise induced into each packet during each transfer phase from thermal, trapping, emission-current, and leakage-current fluctuations, whose statistics are nonstationary, and from clock-voltage fluctuations, whose statistics are stationary, is determined. Relaxation of the transferring charge to these fluctuations is found to suppress their size. Second, the accumulation (collecting) of the noise as each packet is transferred through the device is calculated neglecting the role of incomplete charge transfer. Attention is drawn to the significant differences between the collecting of storage-process noise, which is unsuppressed, transfer-process noise, whose spectral density is nearly totally suppressed at low frequencies, and modulation noise, which is nearly totally suppressed for digital and analog signals. Third, the role of incomplete charge transfer in suppressing the collecting of the noise is shown for digital signals and indicated for analog signals. We conclude with a numerical calculation of the maximum possible signal-to-noise ratio that can be expected from charge-transfer devices. The presentation is sufficiently general and detailed that, with a minimum of background in formal noise theory, one can use the approach to evaluate noise in many novel, solid-state devices."
"The results of a statistical analysis of telephone noise are presented. The analysis consists of two stages: an exploratory data analysis stage, where the data are characterized through various nonparametric statistics and a model-building stage, where the data are matched to models. The exploratory data analysis stage involved examination of noise waveforms, power spectra, and covariance estimates. The results show that telephone noise consists of a deterministic component (sinusoids at various frequencies) and a stochastic component. It is assumed that these components add. The data are filtered to remove the deterministic component. Next, central moment estimates are presented, as well as first-order amplitude statistics (histograms and empirical cumulative distributions) for these filtered data. The results indicate that the filtered data appear wide-sense stationary over short periods of time (typically 1 second) and, although close to gaussian, are distinctly nongaussian. The model-building stage involved fitting the filtered data to two classes of models. The first class of models is based on symmetric stable distributions that arise from the central limit theorem. The second class of models assumes two different physical processes that contribute to the random component of telephone noise: The low-variance process is assumed to be gaussian, while the high-variance component is assumed to be a filtered Poisson process. Both classes of models agree intuitively with the physical processes generating telephone noise and are mathematically tractable. Based largely on graphical tests, both models appear to fit the filtered data reasonably well."
"A low-noise, hybrid-integrated, millimeter-wave receiver that consists of a local oscillator and a downconverter on a silica substrate is described in this paper. The source for the local oscillator is a Gunn diode, and the mixer element is a beam-leaded Schottky barrier diode. A novel filter circuit is used to combine the local oscillator and the signal with low insertion loss in the signal path. The single-sideband noise figure of the receiver at 30 GHz is 5.5 dB, including 0.8-dB contribution of the if amplifier, and the rms FM frequency variation resulting from the local oscillator is 168 Hz/√KHz."
"The outage time on short radio paths at frequencies above 10 GHz can be estimated from distributions of point rain rates derived from U. S. Weather Service rain gauge charts. In this paper, a previous theory is extended to include the effects of path length and frequency. Experimental corroboration is presented for three locations on the east coast of the United States, and the design of short radio paths is illustrated by examples. One-minute rain rate distributions for 20 locations are also included."
"A broadband antenna is described with an elliptical beam suitable for efficient illumination of the United States from a satellite in synchronous orbit. The antenna is also suitable for use in terrestrial radio systems above 10 GHz. It consists of a corrugated feed and two parabolic cylinders that efficiently transform the circularly symmetric beam radiated by the feed into an elliptical beam. Depolarization of the incident beam by the two cylinders is very small and essentially independent of the angle of incidence, which can therefore be chosen as large as required to avoid aperture blockage. The performance is described of an antenna with a 5.8° × 2.9° elliptical beam at 18.5 GHz. For any input polarization, the cross-polarized component of the far field remains over the entire beam at least 33.5 dB below the main component on axis. This cross-polarized component is due in part to imperfections in the corrugated feed and in part to some aperture blockage by the feed and depolarization by the cylinders. A first-order analysis of the frequency dependence shows that the beamwidths vary little with frequency for an antenna using a properly designed feed and cylinders of sufficiently large apertures. As the frequency is increased from 18.5 to 29 GHz, the measured horizontal and vertical beamwidth variations are +1.7 and −14 percent, respectively."
"A general method is proposed to evaluate the radiation loss of bent open waveguides. This method consists in evaluating the coupling between the waveguide mode and the whispering-gallery modes that can be associated with the surrounding medium. The expression obtained for a reactive surface coincides with a previous result by Miller and Talanov.1 We investigate in detail the radiation loss of the fundamental (HE11) mode of a dielectric rod coupled to a slab. This arrangement, described in Part II of this article series,2 provides a useful mode-selection technique. The radiation loss is given by a simple closed-form expression. We find that for a wavelength of 1 µm and a rod radius of 5 µm in physical contact with the slab, the bending loss is less than 1 dB/km if the radius of curvature, in the plane of the slab, exceeds 22 mm."
"Since the use of graded-index optical-fiber waveguides can greatly reduce pulse dispersion, fibers with greater acceptance angles can be used to increase the power coupled from an incoherent source. The increase in acceptance angle is obtained by increasing the total index variation between the core and cladding, which is achieved by increasing the doping of the fiber. This paper shows that the increased loss of the fiber resulting from concentration-fluctuation scattering by the dopant eventually decreases the light at the output end of the fiber. Therefore, there is an optimum magnitude for the total index variation based on loss considerations alone. Analytic expressions are developed using a simplified theory of concentration-fluctuation scattering that assumes the dopant molecules are randomly distributed. These expressions are applied to doped-silica-based fibers, assuming typical values for the source intensity, fiber loss, and receiver sensitivity."
"Telephone structures must remain in operation during the shock and vibration caused by blasts, earthquakes, or other dynamic forces. Traditionally, various numerical methods, including the finite element approach, have been used to analyze such problems. These methods, although effective, generally require excessive and costly computations. In contrast, the Fourier transform method used in conjunction with a fast Fourier transform algorithm is much more economical. In addition, shock and vibration problems involving frequency-dependent parameters can be effectively treated by the Fourier method. However, to make the Fourier method more effective and widely applicable, various tractable input-transfer-output relations are needed. This paper derives a set of simple equality and inequality relations that allow various response parameters to be conveniently estimated based on partial knowledge of the input and the structures. In particular, two lower bounds and eight upper bounds of the maximum response of linear structures are presented. Simple structures subjected to impulse loads resembling blasts and a random transient load resembling earthquakes are studied. Practical applications of the method to telephone structures are demonstrated by the analysis of a battery stand and a community dial office system in an earthquake area."
 "A general description of the Logic Analyzer for Maintenance Planning (LAMP) system is presented. LAMP is a digital-logic simulation and analysis system used for logic-design verification, for generation and evaluation of fault-detection and diagnostic tests, and for generation of the trouble-location manual (or fault dictionary) data. It is implemented on the IBM 360/370 TSS and OS machines (for both interactive and batch operations), and has been in active use at Bell Laboratories in the development of electronic switching systems, data set facilities, transmission equipment, and advanced integrated circuit technologies."
"The algorithms used for logic-circuit simulation in the Logic Analyzer for Maintenance Planning (LAMP) system are described. Several simulators are available to allow a cost-effective tradeoff between simulation cost and the level of detail needed for a particular application. The true value simulator provides efficient simulation of fault-free logic circuits. Two fault simulators simulate the classical stuck-at faults as well as shorted-gate-output faults. Hyperactive faults, those faults which cause an inordinate amount of simulation activity, are discussed along with their impact on simulation time. A four-value simulation logic is described which simplifies circuit initialization procedures."
"An automatic test generation system has been developed to detect faults in combinational and sequential circuits. The circuit model treats logic circuits as interconnections of unit- and zero-time-delay gates. A series of time-dependent Boolean equations are derived from the logic network (starting from the network inputs) in terms of sequences of signals (input vectors) on the circuit input leads. These equations account for the effect of specific circuit faults. Many tests, each consisting of a sequence of input signals (input vectors), are needed to detect all single faults in a circuit. Tests are generated from the time-dependent equations using two different strategies: (i) a maximum-cover approach to detect a large number of faults quickly by generating tests for the faults on the circuit-input leads. The fault-detection level achieved by the maximum-cover tests is then evaluated using fault simulation; (ii) tests for individual faults not detected by the maximum-cover approach. ATG has been implemented on the IBM 360, Model 67, and IBM 370, Model 168, computers."
"A new technique has been developed for organizing (or reorganizing) system design to enhance fault diagnosability. This technique is called the controllability, observability, and maintenance engineering technique, or COMET. Using graph-theoretical analysis, one can systematically apply COMET to a proposed or an existing digital system to determine the placement of control, access, and monitor points for diagnostic testing. In addition, it provides a means of studying the trade-offs between fault resolvability and the cost of maintenance hardware and/or packaging. COMET offers an orderly approach to implementing an overall diagnostic design by providing guidelines in early design stages. A design developed using COMET has the following advantages: trouble location manual data can be generated without the use of fault simulation, multiple faults and/or nonclassical faults are locatable if they are detectable, and diagnostic or trouble-location information can be easily updated in accordance with hardware changes. Studies indicate that applying COMET to an existing processor design would require a modest increase in hardware of less than 10 percent."
"Specific attempts have been made at Bell Laboratories to shorten development intervals, to improve the quality of system design, and to improve unit, manufacturing, and system testing by widespread application of the LAMP system during development of the 1A Processor and No. 4 Electronic Switching System. LAMP has played a major role in two areas of the design process — design verification and fault simulation. Although ten major digital subsystems of No. 4 ESS and the 1A Processor are now being simulated on the LAMP system, this paper describes the experience gained during development of two of the 1A Processor subsystems, central control and program/call store."
"Rain-induced cross-polarization is an important factor in design of dual-polarization microwave radio communication systems. We present current estimates of this effect based upon calculated differential characteristics of canted oblate raindrops and their relationship to experiments. Measured differential attenuation and cross-polarization, mainly at 18 GHz, are used to determine two empirical parameters: an effective average of the absolute value of the canting angle and a measure of the imbalance between positive and negative canting angles. We can then provide estimates for median values of cross-polarization discriminations at other frequencies; these are found to agree fairly well with available measured data. Differential phase shift is the dominant factor in the rain-induced cross-polarization at frequencies below about 10 GHz, and differential attenuation becomes increasingly important at higher frequencies. For a given rain fading, the cross-polarization decreases with increase in frequency and is relatively insensitive to the rain rate, whereas for a given amount of rain the cross-polarization increases with frequency up to about 35 GHz. The cross-polarization discrimination of circularly polarized waves is much poorer than that of linearly polarized waves. When the angle α between the direction of propagation and the axis of symmetry of oblate raindrops is not equal to π/2, as on earth-space paths in satellite communication systems, the differential attenuation and differential phase shift can be approximated by sin2 α times those for α = π/2, which is the condition for terrestrial paths."
"The design of a two-phase, buried-channel (or bulk-channel) charge-coupled device is presented. Directionality is obtained by using a stepped-oxide structure. The basic operation of the device is explained, and the effect that changes in various design parameters have on its operation is examined in some detail. A set of roughly optimal parameters are found that yield an extremely fast and efficient device. We estimate a charge-transfer time of 1.8 ns and a charge capacity of 4.1 × 1011 (electrons/cm2). Only existing technology is necessary for its fabrication."
"A dielectric slab can keep optical beams confined transversely in its plane if it is tapered, with the slab thickness having a maximum along some straight line. When the square of the local wave number of the slab (k2) is a quadratic function of the transverse coordinate (y), the rays in the plane of the slab are sinusoids whose optical length is almost independent of the amplitude. For thin slabs (2d « λ) as well as for thick slabs (2d » λ), pulse spreading is large because the ratio of the local phase to group velocity is strongly dependent on the distance (y) from axis. We show that pulse spreading is almost negligible, however, if the thickness of the slab is properly chosen. For example, if the slab thickness on axis is 2.5 micrometers and the refractive index of the slab is 1 percent higher than that of the surrounding medium, pulse spreading is only 0.05 nanosecond per kilometer at a wavelength of 1 micrometer. Pulses in clad fibers having the same width (0.2 millimeter) and carrying the same number of modes (15) spread 50 times faster. Splicing and matching to injection lasers may be easier with planar fibers than with conventional fibers. Low-dispersion planar fibers are therefore attractive when used in conjunction with sources that are multimoded in one dimension. Closed-form expressions are given for square-law and linear-law profiles."
"The term “single-material fiber” describes a dielectric optical waveguide made of only one type of glass. The theory of this waveguide is simplified by placing the structure between two perfectly conducting planes that have very little influence on the properties of the low-order modes. The field distribution and propagation constant of the lowest-order mode are investigated and compared to an approximate theory."
"The theory of propagation in a new single-material, single-mode, optical fiber is given. The modes are of the whispering-gallery type, with the propagation taking place along helicoidal paths close to the boundary of a cylindrical dielectric rod. The beams are confined in the azimuthal direction in helicoidal ridges. It is shown that single-mode, low-loss operation is possible if the helix period is of the order of the rod cross-section area divided by the wavelength and the ridge area is of the order of 1 percent of the rod cross-section area for two channels. The rod is supported by helicoidal wings that play a role in the mode-selection mechanism."
"An offset Cassegrainian antenna with essentially zero aperture blockage is expected to support closely spaced well-isolated beams suitable for earth stations and satellites. Each beam is fed with a separate small-flare-angle corrugated horn and has good area efficiency over a 1.75:1 bandwidth. Each beam also has good cross-polarization properties. The antenna is compact, and the design appears practical for a 4- and 6-GHz earth station, a 20- and 30-GHz earth station, and a 20- and 30-GHz satellite."
"An improved delta modulator is described that communicates to the receiver changes in the magnitude of the signal instead of changes in the amplitude. It is shown that propagation of errors in this system is limited, even when digital accumulators without leakage are used for integration."
"We consider a new kind of coding problem, which has applications in a variety of situations. A message x is to be encoded using a key m to form an encrypted message y = Φ(x, m), which is then supplied to a user G. G knows m and so can calculate x. It is desired to choose Φ(.,.) so as to protect G against B, who knows x, y, and Φ(.,.) (but not m); B may substitute a false message y' for y. It is shown that if the key can take K values, then an optimal strategy for B secures him a probability of an undetected substitution ≪ K−1. Several encoding functions Φ(.,.) are given, some of which achieve this bound."
"Queues arising in buffers due to either random interruptions of the channel or variable source rates are analyzed in the framework of a single digital system. Two motivating applications are: (i) multiplexing of data with speech on telephone channels and (ii) buffering of data generated by the coding of moving images in Picturephone® service. In the model a source feeds data to a buffer at a uniform rate. The buffer's access to a channel with fixed maximum rate of transmission is controlled by a switch; only when the switch is closed (“on”) is the buffer able to discharge. The on-off sequence of the switch is indicated by a burst process which is a key element in this paper. In such a process, long periods during which the switch stays closed alternate with periods, called bursts, during which the on-off sequence is a first-order Markov process. The length of a burst is randomly distributed. This is a generalization of the memoryless burst process considered in an earlier paper.1 In that paper we gave formulas for the efficient computation of various functionals of the queues arising in the system. Now we extend these formulas to hold for the generalized class of burst processes."
"Although coherent phase-shift keying (CPSK) is an efficient means of transmitting digital signals over carrier systems, it has not enjoyed widespread use at microwave and millimeter wavelengths because of the difficulty of recovering an accurate reference carrier for coherent detection. In this paper, a system is described which requires only a narrow-band phase-locked-oscillator filter for reference carrier recovery. This is accomplished by block-coding and decoding the pulse sequence at the terminals; the recovery of a baseband timing wave is also facilitated by the coding process. It is also shown that: (i) for an arbitrary random input sequence, accurate carrier recovery cannot be achieved with just a narrow-band filter, (ii) for the system described, any input pulse sequence is acceptable, and (iii) there is a maximum error in the phase of the recovered reference carrier which can be controlled by choosing the number of pulses in the coding block and the bandwidth of the recovery filter."
"Stable biasing of multiterminal PNIPN structures to support controlled current filaments is proposed. A filament forms when base layer spreading resistance is sufficiently high for lateral base voltage drops to shut off injection at all but a small interior portion of the structure. For elongated parallel stripe emitter-base configurations, application of a magnetic field normal to the current filament and stripe axes results in lateral displacement of the filament which is detectable through a change in the external circuit current flow pattern. This displacement can be significantly larger than that of a single-pass Hall deflection, yielding high sensitivity. Analysis of an ideal model confirms a substantial improvement in performance over that of conventional Hall devices, viz., a manyfold increase in the ratio of short circuit signal current to drive current, similar improvement in signal-to-offset ratio, and controllable high output impedance making large signal voltages available. Solutions for the ideal model are presented for carrier transport in the I region both without and with lateral diffusive spread. It is argued that departures of actual device behavior from this model are not apt to be important. Possible circuit connections and a sample calculation of parameter values for a realizable structure are also given."
"We present the constructive design of finite order equalizer filters for data transmission systems employing decision feedback equalization. Both transmitter design with power constraints and receiver design with ambient noise considerations are treated. Expressions for the filter tap settings which maximize a signal-to-noise ratio are found for both baseband pulse amplitude modulation and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) systems. Design examples are given in a passband equivalent (of QAM) formulation for an average toll telephone connection. Neglecting the possibility of error propagation, these examples demonstrate that decision feedback equalization requires fewer taps for acceptable system performance as compared to linear equalization. The problem of postcursor size in a decision feedback equalized response is treated and shown to diminish in importance when a hybrid equalization procedure is imposed on the linear tap adjustment. The price one pays for allowing the linear filter taps to reduce the postcursor sizes in this hybrid equalizer is a lower signal-to-noise ratio."
"This paper develops the properties of the Erlang loss function, B (N, a), used in telephone traffic engineering. The extension to a transcendental function of two complex variables is constructed, thus permitting the methods of complex analysis to be employed for the further study of its properties. Exact representations, Rodrigues formulas, and addition theorems are given both for the loss function and for the related Poisson-Charlier polynomials. Asymptotic formulas and approximations are developed for the loss function and also for its derivatives. A table of coefficients is included which, together with one of the asymptotic formulas, permits computation of B (N, a) by simple means even when the number of trunks, N, is very large. This same table is used to obtain ∂B(x, a)/∂x."
 "Couial-rrier transmi.uion systems oonatitute a aipificant portion of the Bell System long-haul transmission facilities. These systems have been developed over several decades to provide the buill of a higb-quality. bigb-capacity. long-distance communications network."
"The L5 Coaxial-Carrier Transmission System is a new solid-state broadband system designed to transmit 10,800 long-haul message channels on standard 1-inch (9.5-mm) coaxial cable. Alternatively, high-speed digital signals may be transmitted in selected master groups. This paper contains an overall system description and describes in detail system design considerations such as the transmission plan, frequency allocation, and 4000-mile noise performance. Also considered are the significant properties of the coaxial medium, the ways they affect the hierarchy of equalizers traditionally found in long-haul coaxial systems, and the manner in which the several levels of equalization relate to each other and to the fundamental transmission phenomena within the system."
"The L5 repeatered line is presented from the viewpoint of a distributed equalization process. Reliable transmission of 10,800 circuits over 4000 miles of coaxial cable with minimum noise is the sole objective of this process. The strategy is to provide equalization in cause-associated increments that place specific bounds on signal-level excursions, thereby insuring an ultralinear, low-noise predictable transmission medium. The individual causes of signal misalignment, both static and dynamic, are examined and the realization of the strategy, which forms a hierarchy of equalizers, is described."
"The repeaters in a pair of L5 coaxial-carrier transmission lines are powered in a series loop with two dc-to-dc converters at each end of a power span. The loop is normally grounded at one end with the converter voltages balanced to minimize the voltage to ground at the floating end. As with the L4 system, automatic grounding of the floating point is provided to limit the line voltage to ground and to enable the two lines to be powered independently during turnup and under trouble conditions. A new dc-to-dc converter powered by a 140-V battery has been developed. It employs a single power stage to deliver 910 mA at output levels up to 1150 V. A dc-to-dc converter was also developed for operation on 24-V battery power for use at stations where installation of a new 140-V battery plant is not warranted. The dc-to-dc converters employ hybrid, thin-film, integrated circuits to achieve the needed level of precision without dependence on field adjustments. They also employ many new automatic control features that simplify operation of the four converters in a series loop and permit turnup by remote control via the E2 status reporting and control system. Another new feature is a spare converter with reversible polarity and a decentralized high-voltage patching arrangement."
"A new system has been designed to provide protection switching capability for the L5 repeatered line. This line-protection switching system, called lpss−3, provides one standby line for protection of as many as 10 service carrying lines. Switching equipment is located in terminal, terminal main, and switching power-feed stations. Economic and reliability considerations allow switching spans of up to 150 miles. Either temperature pilot deviations or excessive total signal energy initiates automatic switching. Manual control of all switching functions is provided locally and via telemetry. A dedicated pcm signaling system maintains interstation switching system coordination. Identical information is transmitted in complem entary form over two adjacent L5 channels. Parity and complementary checking as well as automatic retransmission of failed codes enhances error immunity."
"A centralized and automated transmission surveillance system has been developed for the L5 Coaxial-Carrier Transmission System as a means for attaining desired transmission reliability. Additional benefits are extensive and include accurate data-processing capabilities plus substantial cost and time economies. The system consists of two basic measuring and control facilities: (i) a transmission surveillance center, located at a designated main station, originates all control operations and accumulates and processes all measured data through use of a small computer, and (ii) transmission surveillance auxiliaries, located at all other main stations, perform measurement functions as directed and return the resulting raw data to the controlling transmission surveillance center. Digitally operated test equipment makes desired measurements under local or remote programmed control, and the E2 Status Reporting and Control System provides interstation transmission of commands and data through time-sharing of a four-wire data transmission link."
"The juinbogroup multiplex (jmx) translates basic jumbogroup signals to and from the L5 line spectrum. Each of three jumbogroups provides 3600 4-kHz voice circuits. In addition to frequency translation, the jmx provides regulation and equalization on a jumbogroup basis and automatic one-for-one protection. Performance objectives are discussed and interpreted from the perspective of their influence on the design philosophy and approach used and the resultant physical realization. All subsystems are presented in detail. Particular mention is made of the double-balanced diode-ring modulator developed for jmx application."
"The 39A precision oscillator is designed to operate at 40 watts from a 24-V ± 10-percent power source. The reference frequency can be set digitally to 5.12 MHz ± 5 × 10−11 over a tuning range of ± 4 × 10−7. The output signal is a 1-mW sinewave into a 100-ohm load. This performance is assured over a temperature range of 0 to 60 degrees Celsius. Oscillator outline dimensions for length, width, and height are 35.3, 22.1, and 21.8 cm respectively."
"The jumbogroup frequency supply (jfs) provides accurate and reliable synchronization signals to L5 jumbogroup multiplex carrier supplies. The jfs output-signal frequency is held to within several parts in 1010 of an input reference frequency. This extraordinary accuracy is achieved by digital frequency control of a precision quartz oscillator. The excellent reliability required when the jfs serves over 100,000 two-way voice circuits is achieved by redundant power and signal feeds, one-for-one protection of key circuits, and automatic protection switching. In addition to its L5 application, the jfs will also serve as a regional frequency supply in a new synchronizing frequency distribution network that will upgrade the entire Bell System transmission plant."
"Each L5 coaxial line is capable of carrying three 3600-channel basic jumbogroup signals that are translated to and from the L5 line spectrum (3.124 to 60.556 MHz) through jumbogroup multiplex equipment. The L5 line signal also includes several line pilots and switching, maintenance, and reference signals. Administration of all these signals is performed by the L5 line connecting circuits, which vary in complexity with the type of main station they serve. In addition to the circuits required to handle the various components of the L5 line spectrum, signal administration is also required at basic jumbogroup frequencies, before the jumbogroup multiplexing step, to allow interconnection to lower-order multiplex or other systems using the basic jumbogroup frequency format of 0.564 to 17.548 MHz. To perform this function, the basic jumbogroup trunk bay was developed and provides interconnection flexibility hitherto unavailable for direct connections to other long-haul systems, such as L4, lmd, td, or th radio, or L5 systems of another route."
"The L5 Coaxial-Carrier Transmission System equipment was designed to provide long-term reliable service in diverse environments. The line repeaters, for instance, are housed in apparatus cases located in manholes that are subjected to flooding, whereas the main-station repeaters and terminal multiplexing equipment are located in the controlled environment of underground or aboveground buildings, often only partially attended by maintenance personnel. In addition to describing novel physical designs, this paper covers other very important considerations such as thermal design, manufacturability, incorporation of hybrid integrated-circuit technology, efficient “building-block” system growth capability, and long-term reliability."
"A family of ultralinear npn transistors has been developed for use in the L5 coaxial-carrier system. These 3-GHz devices are characterized by extremely low distortion and noise figure. The transistor comprises an interdigitated base-emitter structure with a heavily doped base grid connected to the peripheral base metal contact. The emitter contact is overlaid on the base-emitter region. Contact metallurgy consists of a platinum silicide, titanium, platinum, and gold system. The transistor is a highly reliable device and meets all the performance requirements of the L5 system."
"The development of transmission networks and magnetic components for the L5 system represents the largest network development project of its type ever undertaken within the Bell System. Over 200 different coded designs of networks, requiring in excess of 40 man-years of effort, were required to meet the frequency-selective and signal-shaping requirements of the system. Despite this effort, neither systems requirements nor systems schedules could have been met without significant contributions from allied technologies. This article identifies those technologies and describes design techniques that have advanced the state-of-the-art capabilities in transmission network and magnetic component design."
"The L5 Coaxial-Carrier Transmission System is the first long-haul, high-capacity transmission system for which the design was strongly influenced by extensive application of computer-aided design (cad) techniques. A tight time schedule required a parallel effort of (i) improving and using the somewhat limited capabilities of existing cad programs and (ii) developing new programs having increased capability and efficiency. Similar development of computer-controlled measurement techniques provided necessary device and component characterization and subsystem evaluation. The result is a powerful group of tools that are independently important, but whose combined use helped make possible the timely completion of the L5 system design. These tools, now “proved in,” will profoundly influence the next system design philosophy."
 "This paper investigates the statistical properties of the sum, S, of an n-dimensional Gaussian random vector, N, plus the sum of M vectors, X1, …, XM, having random amplitudes and independent arbitrary orientations in n-dimensional space. We derive expressions for the probability density function (p.d.f.) and distribution function (d.f.) of S and of its length, |S|, as series expansions involving only the moments of |Xi|, i = 1, …, M. In addition, we find the p.d.f. and d.f. of the projection of S onto 1-dimensional space. Our results are generalizations of the n = 2-dimensional problem of finding the statistical properties of a sum of constant-amplitude sinusoids having independent uniformly distributed phase angles plus Gaussian noise. The latter problem has been treated by Rice1 and Esposito and Wilson,2 but our results can also deal with sinusoids having random amplitudes. When n = 3, our findings treat, in the presence of a Gaussian vector, the classical problem of “random flights” dating back to Rayleigh. Some calculations for the 2- and 3-dimensional problem are presented, and an application to coherent phase-shift-keying communications systems is discussed."
"A linear, 500-element, 3-phase charge-coupled device, originally built as a high-resolution linear image sensor, has been chosen as a representative structure for single-level, 3-phase charge-coupled devices to exemplify the performance of such devices in detail. Charge-handling ability and transfer efficiency have been studied as a function of various design parameters and operating conditions. Most of the observed functional dependences are well understood and agree with the expectations based on model calculations. However, various problems are encountered in these structures. An unusually wide spread of the performance of different devices and slow instabilities are observed. They are attributed to a lack of control of the interface potential in the gaps between the transfer electrodes. Some emphasis is placed on a more detailed description of the various measurement techniques used. These techniques are of a general interest since they are applicable to other charge-transfer devices."
"The sampling switch in a time-division switching system is, in general, different from the sampler of sampled-data system theory. A general approach is developed for characterizing such a switch as an ideal sampler plus some modified transfer functions. With this approach, a time-division switching circuit containing a sampling switch can be converted easily to a typical sampled-data system, and the well-established mathematical tools for sampled-data systems, such as the Z-transform, can be applied. In addition, a simplified approach is described that will lead to a very good approximation of the “exact” solution."
"A 6.3-Mb/s repeater for fiber optic communication systems is described which incorporates a high-impedance input amplifier. It is shown that by utilizing an input circuit with a time constant which is long compared to the bit interval and equalizing after the signal has been sufficiently amplified to set the signal-to-noise ratio, thermal noise can be decreased. As a result, a reduction can be realized in the required signal and, with an avalanche detector, in the optimum gain. The repeater, which was realized in a compact form employing standard integrated circuits, utilizes a GaAs light-emitting diode as its optical source. Other features include automatic gain and threshold controls and recovered timing."
"The slab-coupled waveguide, consisting of a dielectric rod lying on a slab that in turn covers a substrate, is a multidielectric waveguide that includes such special cases as the single-material fiber, the rib waveguide, and the strip-loaded film guide. These guides have recently become known as potentially useful either for long-distance optical transmission or for integrated optics. Simple, closed-form, approximate solutions have been found to describe the following properties of the guide: number of modes, their field configurations and propagation constants, numerical aperture, requirements for single-mode operation, field penetration in the slab, tolerance to curvature of the guide axis, dispersion, and impulse response."
"The number of modes that can propagate without radiation loss in oversized waveguides is sharply reduced if the waveguide is coupled to a structure supporting radiation modes, the loss mechanism being analogous to Cerenkov radiation. The coupling formula derived in Part I1 is used to evaluate the loss for a specific configuration: a reactive surface (e.g., a thin dielectric slab) acting as a waveguide, coupled to a semi-infinite dielectric acting as a mode sink. The method consists in first assuming that the substrate is finite in size and lossy and adding the losses associated with each substrate mode. The substrate dimensions are subsequently made infinite and the dissipation loss is made to vanish. The expression obtained for the radiation loss coincides with an expression obtained by solving the boundary value problem. The method is then applied to the problem of mode selection for dielectric rods coupled to dielectric slabs, which is of particular importance for optical communications and integrated optics. A 2-dB/m radiation loss is calculated for the first higher order mode when the rod radius is 10 µm, λ = 1 µm, n = 1.41, and the rod-to-slab spacing is 0.15 µm."
"Low-loss strip-loaded guides, consisting of 7059 glass film on fused quartz substrate with sputtered SiO2 as the loading strip, have been investigated. The number of modes supported by the strip-loaded structures were determined experimentally and compared with the values predicted by the application of an equivalent index analysis. Agreement between theory and experiment is good in the case of the smaller number of modes which result from small loading, with the 7059 film thickness far away from cutoff."
"The impulse response of multimode optical fibers is distorted because each mode carries the signal at a different group velocity. Mode coupling tends to reduce the width of the impulse response. Rayleigh scattering, being the most fundamental scattering process in optical fibers, serves as a mode-coupling mechanism. However, it also causes radiation loss. The penalty of a seemingly apparent improvement of the impulse response through Rayleigh scattering is calculated in this paper. We conclude that, because of the high loss penalty, Rayleigh scattering is not a suitable technique for pulse-width improvement."
"The coupling of modes in two parallel dielectric waveguides is studied. The individual waveguides are assumed to be asymmetric and unlike each other. If the individual waveguides support modes with nearly equal propagation constants β2 and β4 = β2 + 2Δ, then the double waveguide system will support two new modes with propagation constants β_ = β2 − Δbar; and β+ = β4 + Δbar;. The shift Δbar; is related to Δ and to the shift Δ which would occur if the original modes were degenerate; Δ is expressed in terms of the parameters describing the asymmetric double waveguide system. The field distributions of the new modes are approximately even and odd combinations of those of the original modes in the isolated waveguides; the relative amplitudes with which they are combined depend upon the amount of mismatching Δ. As the modes travel down the waveguide system, they partially cancel and add, thus transferring power. A power transfer ratio F is defined and is shown to decrease rapidly as Δ/Δ increases. The beat length L depends upon both Δ and Δ/Δ it also decreases as Δ/Δ increases. A numerical example is given to illustrate the effects of mismatching and to demonstrate the feasibility of constructing a mode-coupling device. Possibilities of tuning the device to reduce mismatching are discussed."
 "We consider the problem of source coding subject to a fidelity criterion for a simple network connecting a single source with two receivers via a common channel and two private channels. The region of attainable rates is formulated as an information-theoretic minimization. Several upper and lower bounds are developed and shown to actually yield a portion of the desired region in certain cases."
"When a suitable interfacial dopant, such as W, is introduced at the interface between the dielectrics of a DDC cell, the write-erase characteristics of the cell are greatly improved. The useful range of the dopant concentration is determined to lie between about 1014 to 1015 atoms/cm2. The interfacial dopant allows the fabrication of a DDC cell with relatively thick SiO2 layers (> 50 Å). The result is a substantially permanent memory cell that can still be subjected to electrical write-erase at reasonable gate-voltage conditions."
"We present a simple, relatively efficient method to predict the nonvolatility of dual-dielectric, charge-storage cells. Using this method, charge-retention times of several hundred years can be predicted unambiguously from experiments of several days' duration made at elevated temperatures and with externally applied, accelerating fields. The method is first presented in the context of a simple, physically reasonable model of the bias and temperature dependence of the characteristic relaxation time of the device. It is then used to analyze a particular device structure. At 80°C, we predict that this device can maintain a flatband-voltage shift in excess of 4 volts for approximately 500 years. Our analysis suggests that this method can be applied to a variety of dual-dielectric, charge-storage cells to predict their non-volatilities."
"This paper describes the noise performance of input amplifiers for optical pulse-code-modulation repeaters. The noise is treated in terms of an effective noise generator in parallel with the photocurrent induced in the detector and the effective noise, in turn, is related to error performance. The analysis applies to both conventional and integrating front ends. Both field effect and bipolar transistor amplifiers are treated. For the latter, an optimum bias current that minimizes the effect of thermal noise is derived. Finally, predicted and measured performance are compared for silicon field-effect transistor input amplifiers at 6.3 Mb/s and 50 Mb/s, and for bipolar transistor and GaAs field-effect transistor input amplifiers at 274 Mb/s."
"Guidelines for the design of multimode, step-index fibers with intentional fluctuations of the refractive index of the core are given, with the aim of reducing multimode pulse dispersion. It appears possible to engineer a fiber with carefully designed refractive index fluctuations, the azimuthal variation of which is governed by the function cos ϕ and the z dependence of which has a spatial Fourier spectrum with a sharp cutoff frequency. By limiting the location of the index fluctuations to a region below a certain radius rmax, coupling to modes with large azimuthal mode numbers can be avoided and power loss via coupling to radiation modes can be held to a minimum."
"An outage of the Plano, Illinois, to Cascade, Iowa, link of the L4 coaxial cable occurred at about 2240 UT on 4 August 1972 during a large geomagnetic storm. The available geomagnetic data measured in North America, as well as data received from two satellite instruments, are analyzed. These data show that, at the time of the L4 outage, the boundary of the magnetosphere was pushed to unusually low altitudes by a greatly enhanced solar wind. As a result, large, rapid changes of the earth's magnetic field strength were observed over North America. It is demonstrated that the field changes at about 2241 to 2242 UT were of such magnitude as to induce earth currents of sufficient strength to produce the L4 outage by causing a high-current shutdown of the system link. The geomagnetic disturbances that produced the shutdown were not of the auroral-electrojet type normally associated with disruptions of power systems."
"Gallium-arsenide “stacked” varactors employed in a frequency doubler and tripler have given 8- to 10-watt output at 4 and 6 GHz with efficiencies of 70 to 80 percent."
"This paper describes the general properties of a negative-impedance-boosted (NIB) transmission line, an otherwise uniform line to which lumps of negative impedance have been introduced periodically along its length. The purpose of these lumps is to reduce the attenuation of the line, but they also make possible self-oscillation and cause reflections. However, these reflections are cancelled up to a cutoff frequency that has an inverse relationship to the spacing of NIB units. Summaries are included of the latest NIB project; of previous investigations into NIB lines, many of which were not published; and of the first work in the Bell System to reduce transmission-line attenuation through the introduction of loading coils and then unilateral amplifiers. It is shown that many of the differences between properties of NIB lines and properties of a line fitted with unilateral amplifiers come from the different ways the source of energy replenishment is coupled into the line. It is shown that, under suitable conditions, the addition of small simple NIB units to a transmission line can reduce its loss to a low level in a stable manner and also equalize it. Because of some properties of NIB lines, they cannot be used successfully in all situations; in particular, an environment in which large longitudinal currents are induced in the lines is unfavorable."
 "Explicit expressions are derived for the phase constant, the specific-group-delay constant, and the rms width of the impulse response for two-dimensional or square media having a transverse variation of index of refraction according to n = n1(1 − 1/2auxu − 1/2arxr), in which x is the transverse dimension, au and ar are constants with |ar| ≪ au, and (n-n1) ≪ 1. Use is made of an approximation which the author has previously shown yields significant results. The results are applied to fibers with graded-index variation, clad by an additional medium of index n = n1(1 − δ). The ideal index gradient, a near-parabolic profile, gives delay distortion orders of magnitude less than for the conventional fiber with a step-change in index at the core-cladding boundary. However, it is shown that several forms of 5-percent error in the ideal gradient yield improvement of the order of 50 compared with the conventional clad fiber. The delay distortion is shown to be very sensitive to the exact index distribution in the vicinity of the ideal distribution but increasingly insensitive to perturbations in the index distribution as that distribution departs more and more from the ideal."
"Mode coupling is studied in a parabolic index fiber with a lossy boundary and square cross section. Statistical deviations of the fiber axis from perfect straightness and random changes of its width are considered as causing mode coupling. The excess loss caused by these mode coupling mechanisms and the loss penalty incurred for a certain degree of narrowing of the impulse response are estimated."
"Two perturbation formulas have been proposed to evaluate the coupling between parallel optical waveguides, one involving a line integral and the other a surface integral. They are shown to be identical. The former expression is preferred because of its greater simplicity. The case of two parallel lossy dielectric slabs is discussed as an example."
"This paper reports the results of a performance study of an experimental computer communication network. The network is currently being designed and built in order to test concepts and techniques that may find future application. The network consists of synchronous digital transmission lines connected in loops to a Central Switch. User traffic enters the system through multiplexers connected to the synchronous lines. The Central Switch has the two-fold function of routing and controlling traffic. Two multiplexing techniques were examined, Demand Multiplexing (DM) and Synchronous Time Division Multiplexing (STDM). In both techniques, user messages are blocked into fixed size packets, prior to multiplexing on the line. The synchronous line can carry these packets at a maximum rate of 4000 packet slots per second. In STDM each terminal is assigned a packet slot which recurs periodically. In contrast, for DM, packets are multiplexed on the line asynchronously into unoccupied packet slots. Alternative implementations of the DM technique were studied, one where each terminal transmits and receives at a maximum rate of 4000 packets per second and another where the maximum rate is 2000 packets per second. As part of its message-handling function, the Central Switch buffers messages in transit. This allows User Terminals to transmit and receive messages with a degree of independence from one another. However, the terminals' strategy affects the amount of storage required in the Central Switch. In order to prevent the loss of information when there is insufficient buffering, there is a mechanism to inhibit traffic from User Terminals when the Central Switch buffer is near overflow. Due to this control of traffic, there is a relationship between the amount of data that flows through the switch and the amount of buffering in the switch."
"A procedure is proposed for estimating the main-station capacity of an SLM∗ (Subscriber Loop Multiplexer) system by observing the traffic load when the system is partially filled. The procedure is intended to be usable in unattended offices, and requires only one measurement per week and very few calculations. In contrast to the usual practice of measuring load in a time-consistent busy-hour, we work with weekly peak loads, and so our method is based upon the statistical theory of extreme values. The validity and precision of the procedure have been investigated by applying it to data from a study of rural traffic and by a Monte Carlo study of its behavior. Use of this administrative procedure should give the average SLM system a capacity of about 120 rural residential customers, in contrast to the limit of 80 that would be necessary in the absence of traffic measurements. The technique described in this paper was developed for the SLM system and could be used, with suitable changes of numerical values, to handle any subscriber system with concentration. We also hope that, with some modification, the method will be applicable to the administration of other traffic-carrying systems."
"The response of notch filters to sudden excitations is analyzed. Unit step and stepped trigonometric inputs are considered for the class of filters derived from low-pass networks by a frequency transformation. It is possible in some cases to approximate the transient solutions in terms of Laguerre functions and deduce general properties of notch filters from these solutions. The use of phasing sections to modify the transient response is also examined. It is shown that this method can be used to effectively reduce the overshoot in the response to a stepped trigonometric excitation."
"The purpose of this paper is to make comparisons between optimum, linear phase, finite impulse response (FIR) digital filters and infinite impulse response (IIR) digital filters which meet equivalent frequency domain specifications. The basis of comparison is, for the most part, the number of multiplications per sample required in the usual realizations of these filters — i.e., the cascade form for IIR filters, and the direct form for FIR filters. Comparisons are also made between group-delay equalized filters and linear phase FIR filters. Considerations dealing with finite word-length effects are discussed for both these filter types. A set of design charts is also presented for determining the minimum filter order required to meet given low-pass filter specifications for both digital and analog filters."
"Optimum (in a minimax relative error sense) linear phase FIR digital differentiators can be designed in an efficient manner using a Remez optimization procedure. This paper presents data on wideband differentiators designed with even and odd values of N, the filter impulse response duration in samples. Based on these data, several interesting observations can be made, including: (i) Differentiators with even values of N have peak relative errors which are approximately one to two orders of magnitude smaller than identical bandwidth differentiators with odd values of N, and with the same number of multiplications per sample in a direct convolution realization. (ii) The smaller the bandwidth of the differentiator, the faster the decrease of the peak relative error with increasing N. (iii) The larger the value of N, the faster the decrease of the peak relative error with decreasing bandwidth. These observations lead to the conclusions that the bandwidth of a differentiator should be made as small as possible, and that even values of N should be used whenever possible. Complete tables of values of the impulse response coefficients are included for several wideband differentiators for even and odd values of N."
"Optimum (in a minimax sense) linear phase FIR Hilbert transformers can be designed efficiently using a Remez optimization procedure. This paper presents useful design data on wideband Hilbert transformers with even and odd values of N, the impulse response duration (in samples) of the filter. Based on these data, the following observations can be made: (i) In the case of equal lower and upper transition regions, Hilbert transformers with odd values of N can be realized more efficiently than those with even values of N, assuming the same peak errors of approximation for both cases. This is because every other impulse response sample is exactly zero for odd values of N. (ii) The peak approximation error for Hilbert transformers with odd values of N is determined primarily by the minimum of the values of the lower and upper transition widths. (iii) The peak approximation error for Hilbert transformers with even values of N is determined primarily by the lower transition width of the filter. (iv) The smaller the bandwidth of the Hilbert transformer, the faster the decrease of peak error of approximation with decreasing bandwidth of the Hilbert transformer. (v) The larger the value of N, the faster the decrease of peak approximation error with decreasing bandwidth of the Hilbert transformer. These observations lead to the conclusion that the bandwidth of the Hilbert transformer should be made as small as possible, and that odd values of N should be used, whenever possible, for efficient direct form realizations. A set of tables of values of the impulse response coefficients is included for several different bandwidth Hilbert transformers and for both even and odd values of N."
 "A number of articlea1-4 have described the use of horiaontal redundancy removal tecbniQUe8 to reduce the tranamission rate required for coded Picturephone® Bignals to 6.312 Mb/s. Here an extension of thia work is given which usee unconditional vertical and temporal aubsampling techniquea to reduce the required tranamialion capacity to 3 Mb/ 8. Thia type of processing is unique in that it does not employ the complex conditional repleniahment teebniquea which typically have been used to reduce the digital tralUlmi88ioD rate to either 2 Mb/s5 or 1.5 Mb/s6."
"Limitatiooa imposed by attenuation during heavy rain on the reliability o(microwave systems are well known1 and a recent paper2 diacuased observations of depolariaation of circular polariaation by rain at 18 GHa; it was concluded that depolarisation by oblate ra.indropa poses a serioUB problem for the use of circular polarisation. However, it is desirable that a direct comparison be made by simultaneous measurementis of linear and circular polariaatiooa on the same propagation path. Continuous measurements have been made during the period June 1972 through April 1973 (a total of as rain showers); a discumion of these follows a few remarks on the experimental system."
"The Automatic Intercept System routes calls to nonworking telephone numbers to a centralized location where a time division network under stored program control connects the calling customer to a series of prerecorded announcements. The customer is told what number he reached and, from information stored in a large-capacity disc file, is given the reason the number is not in service and, if available, the new number at which the called party may be reached. This paper describes the system objectives and organization and also serves as an introduction to the detailed papers which follow."
"The Automatic Intercept System Operational Programs provide the logic for processing calls served by the system. These programs also perform administrative and software correction and recovery functions. Described are program organization, use of temporary memory, and details of call processing."
"The Automatic Intercept System forms intercept announcements from phrases recorded on a magnetic drum by means of a sequence of connections through a time division switching network. Automatic fault recovery and diagnostic maintenance features include a trunk test circuit that enables maintenance programs to look in at the system on trunk pairs and test the autonomous scanner and time division network as well as the trunk and service circuits. The Automatic Intercept System time division switching network, announcement machines, operator positions, trunk and service circuits, and the maintenance strategy for these units are described in this paper."
"The Automatic Intercept System must maintain a large data base from which information can be obtained pertaining to telephone numbers on intercept in the area. The file complex provides the mass storage medium necessary for this system. This article describes this subsystem, its operation, and how it is maintained."
"An Automatic Intercept System data base of up to a half-million changed or disconnected telephone numbers is updated, corrected, verified, abstracted, restructured, and restored through the actions of a collection of function-oriented subprograms. These subprograms run in the base-level main program loop under their own monitor which also controls interrupt-level accesses to the asychronous disc memory. The monitor together with the set of subprograms provides a file administration capability which responds to both machine stimuli, such as timed entries or trouble indications, and human requests initiated from teletypewriters."
"A series of hardware-software packages has been developed to aid the Automatic Intercept System (AIS) development. These packages involve a PDP-9 support computer connected to the AIS control unit through specially designed hardware. Described in this paper are a real-time debugging system, a series of three support computer programs which aid in the administration of AIS program development, and two utility programs used in connection with the AIS file subsystem."
 "Low-loss single- and multimode optical fibers were fabricated solely from pure fused silica. Their spectral losses corresponded closely to those of unclad fibers drawn from the same material, provided the cores of the single-material fiber preform were redrawn under pure conditions. The lowest steady-state loss of about 3 dB/km at a wavelength of 1.1 μm was obtained with a fiber 130 meters long that had a Spectrosil WF core. Experimental numerical apertures agreed excellently with theoretical predictions."
"A new method is introduced and used to calculate the statistics of the microscopic fluctuations of charge carriers in devices. By expressing the fluctuations of the carriers in terms of elementary transfer fluctuations, we are able to separate the induced fluctuations from the spontaneous fluctuations experienced by such carriers. This enables us to treat correlation effects in the dynamical portion of the problem and reserve for the statistical portion only well-defined, uncorrelated random forces whose statistics are readily calculated. The method includes all important correlation effects as well as multiple-decay-time relaxation effects and, thus, it fills a gap in the Langevin method as well as in the impedance-field method of calculating noise in devices. The method is suitable for treating nonstationary as well as stationary noise, and in some cases can be used directly on macroscopic problems. We also present a derivation of a recently introduced expression for diffusion noise of carriers whose mobility is a nonlinear function of applied electric field. This microscopic approach may further illustrate the origin, nature, and treatment of fluctuations in devices."
"The influence of a lossy jacket on the curvature losses of a bent optical waveguide is studied for the special case of the TE modes of a slab waveguide. This paper presents an approximate theory of curvature losses of the TE modes of dielectric slabs that can be used to obtain numerical answers with the help of a computer. We conclude that the presence of a jacket can increase the curvature losses very substantially. A jacket whose refractive index is larger than that of the waveguide cladding is most effective in increasing cladding losses. It is advisable to keep a jacket at a safe distance from the waveguide core."
"This paper analyzes a block-coding scheme designed to suppress spectral energy near f = 0 for any binary message sequence. In this scheme, the polarity of each block is either maintained or reversed, depending on which decision drives the accumulated digit sum toward zero. The polarity of the block's last digit informs the decoder as to which decision was made. Our objective is to derive the average power spectrum of the coded signal when the message is a random sequence of + 1's and −1's and the block length (M) is odd. The derivation uses a mixture of theoretical analysis and computer simulation. The theoretical analysis leads to a spectrum description in terms of a set of correlation coefficients, {pq} = q = 1, 2, etc., with the pq's functions of M. The computer simulation uses FFT algorithms to estimate the power spectrum and autocorrelation function of the block-coded signal. From these results, {pq} is estimated for various M. A mathematical approximation to pq in terms of q and M is then found which permits a closed-form evaluation of the power spectrum. Comparisons between the final formula and simulation results indicate an accuracy of ±5 percent (±0.2 dB) or better. The block-coding scheme treated here is of particular interest because of its practical simplicity and relative efficiency. The methods used to analyze it can be applied to other block-coding schemes as well, some of which are discussed here for purposes of comparison."
"We describe a simple algorithm for locating the beginning and end of a speech utterance. The algorithm is based on the fact that the code words for an adaptive differential (ADPCM) representation of speech exhibit considerable variation among all quantization levels during both voiced and unvoiced speech intervals while, because of a constraint on the minimum step size, during silent intervals the code words vary only slightly within the smallest quantization steps. The use of the algorithm is illustrated for automatically locating the beginning and end of vocabulary entries for a computer voice response system."
"A method of frame-to-frame coding is proposed in which the changes from one frame to the next are first detected and then transmitted as an intraframe coded signal rather than as frame-to-frame differences. A coder was constructed to test the proposal using DPCM for the intraframe encoding. Three aspects of the coder design presented particular problems. They were: (i) Movement detection (as a result of the increase in frame-to-frame noise caused by the intraframe coding). (ii) Smooth reduction of bit-rate and picture quality so as to take advantage of the reduction in spatial quality that a viewer tolerates when areas are moving fast. (iii) Control strategy for linking the operation of the buffer, the movement detector, and the operating state of the coder. The coder gave good picture quality at a transmission rate of 1.5 megabits per second (0.75 bit per picture element), except in extreme situations where the moving area covered almost the entire screen. The performance is described in detail at bit rates of 2.0, 1.5, and 0.5 megabits per second. The experimental coder has a number of desirable properties from an overall systems point of view when compared with transmission of frame differences. These include high tolerance to transmission errors and small frame storage requirements."
 "This paper gives details of the analytical and num$eLrical procedures used to solve the basic problem of the scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave by an axisymmetric raindrop. A nonperturbative solution is obtained by expanding the scattered and transmitted fields in terms of spherical vector wave functions, so that Maxwell's equations are satisfied exactly in the regions exterior and interior to the raindrop, and by combining point matching with least-squares fitting to satisfy the boundary conditions on the surface of the raindrop with sufficient accuracy. Numerical results are presented for scattering by oblate spheroidal raindrops, with eccentricity depending on (and increasing with) drop size, for two orthogonal polarizations of the incident wave. The calculations were made at 4, 11, 18.1, and 30 GHz, in the case in which the direction of propagation of the incident wave is perpendicular to the axis of symmetry of the raindrop, which is of interest for terrestrial microwave relay systems. At 30 GHz, the calculations were also made for the case in which the angle between the direction of propagation and the axis of symmetry is 70° and 50°, since different elevation angles are of interest for satellite systems. These basic results were summed earlier over the drop-size distribution to calculate the differential attenuation and differential phase shift caused by rain, which are of importance in the investigation of cross polarization in radio communication systems."
"This brief propose the use of fiber ribbons consisting of a linear array of fiben embedded in a thin, flexible aupponina medium as component of cable for fiber tnnomission system. With the progress that has been made in drawing low-loss fibers, the physical form used to cable the fiber has become a truly relevant problem and is presently beina puraued at several laboratories"
"The process of frequency conversion and iw applicationt are well known and have been extensively treated. in the literaturel-3 The conversion ia uaually perfonned by pumping a nonlinear resiative or reactive element. embedded in a linear network and by extracting the sum or difterence frequenciea that are generated by the signal and the pump frequency. The purpose of this Brief ia to deeeribe a novel thin-film convener” which has the following properties"
"An improved delta modulator is described that communicates to the receiver changes in the magnitude of the signal instead of changes in the amplitude. It is shown that propagation of errors in this system is limited, even when digital accumulators without leakage are used for integration."
"A formula is derived for the capacity of a multi-input, multi-output linear channel with memory, and with additive Gaussian noise. The formula is justified by a coding theorem and converse. The channel model under consideration can represent multipair telephone cable including the effect of far-end crosstalk. For such cable under large signal-to-noise conditions, we show that channel capacity and cable length are linearly related; for small signal-to-noise ratio, capacity and length are logarithmically related. Crosstalk tends to reduce the dependence of capacity on cable length. Moreover, for any channel to which our capacity formula applies, and for large signal-to-noise ratio, there is an asymptotic linear relation between capacity and signal-to-noise ratio with slope independent of the channel transfer function. For small signal-to-noise ratio, capacity and signal-to-noise ratio are logarithmically related. Also provided is a numerical evaluation of the channel capacity formula, using measured parameters obtained from an experimental cable."
"Experiments confirm a number of theoretical predictions regarding the behavior of single-material optical fibers. In particular, the predicted modal velocity spread (10's of ns/km) and the numerical aperture are found to be in good agreement with theory."
"In a digital fiber optical communication system, the optical power required at the receiver input to achieve a desired error rate depends upon the shape of the received pulses. In systems employing multimode fibers and/or broadband sources, we can experience pulse spreading in propagation because of the group velocity differences of different modes or because of dispersion. In an effort to control or compensate for pulse spreading, we can trade off coupling efficiency between the light source and the fiber (by varying the core-cladding index difference or bandlimiting the source), scattering loss in the fiber (by introducing mode coupling), and equali sation in the receiver at baseband. This paper investigates the optimal trade-off for various fiber-source combinations."
"This paper presents a new map technique for identifying symmetrizable functions. The technique greatly reduces the work in ascertaining symmetricity, and it is unique in being also applicable to completely or incompletely specified functions which: (i) Contain imbedded symmetrizable function(s). (ii) Are the complement of a function of type (i). (iii) Contain an imbedded function of type (ii). Discussion of the technique and its extensions is included."
"This paper discusses stresses and deflections in anisotropic solid structures of revolution. It presents two methods based on finite-element techniques: one, a solid-of-revolution method in which material properties, applied forces, and temperatures are independent of angle, and two, a long-cylinder method in which these properties are independent of the longitudinal coordinate. These methods are postulated on uniform stress fields within the element, rather than on the usual functional displacement description within the element. A Fortran program has been written for both these methods, and ample test problems are presented to validate the methods. An application is presented for thermal stresses induced during the post-growth cooling stage of Czochralski-grown lithium tantalate crystals."
"This paper describes an equalization procedure for systems using manually adjustable bump equalizers that is based on a mean-squared error criterion. We show that, in accordance with a Gauss-Seidel iteration process, gain adjustment always converges to the optimal value at which the minimum MSE of the equalized channel is obtained. Both zero forcing and MSE algorithms based on the Gauss-Seidel iteration method are derived, and hardware implementation of these algorithms is discussed. According to the error reduction analysis, an equalizer composed of orthogonal networks requires only one iteration to bring the equalizer to the optimum state. For the bump equalizers used in the latest L5 Coaxial Carrier Transmission System whose Bode networks are semi-orthogonal, two to three iterations are shown to be sufficient to achieve the optimum gain settings in the mean-squared error sense."
"This paper presents a mathematical analysis of an adaptive quantizer, a pulse code modulator, which is used for coding speech and other continuous signals with a large dynamic range into digital form. The device is a two-bit quantizer in which the step size is modified at every sampling instant with the object of adapting the range of the device to the intensity level of the signal. In the adaptation algorithm analyzed in the paper, the encoded information of the previous sampling instant is used either to increase or to decrease the step size by fixed, but not necessarily equal, proportions. Initially, the stochastic stability of the device is established by constructing a stochastic Liapunov function. Various basic identities and bounds on aspects of the behavior of the device are obtained. The qualitative results obtained indicate the nature of the trade-offs between the quality of the steady state and the transient performance of the device. Also, formulas are developed for the purpose of evaluating the mean time required for the step size to adapt from arbitrary initial conditions to certain optimal values."
"We derive the spectral density of a sinusoidal carrier phase modulated by a random baseband pulse train in which the signaling pulse duration is finite and the signaling pulses may have different shapes. The spectral density is expressed as a compact Hermitian form in which the Hermitian matrix is a function of only the symbol probability distribution, and the associated column vector is a function of only the signal pulse shapes. If the baseband pulse duration is longer than one signaling interval, we assume that the symbols transmitted during different time slots are statistically independent. The applicability of the method to compute the spectral density is illustrated by examples for binary, quaternary, octonary, and 16-ary PSK systems with different pulse overlap. Similar methods yield the spectral density of the output of a nonlinear device whose input is a random baseband pulse train with overlapping pulses."
"We consider a communication link in which a band-limited speech signal is delta-modulated, detected, and filtered by a low-pass filter, and the analog output is delta-modulated again with an identical encoder. We are concerned with the correlation C between equal-length bit sequences, designated {b} and {B}, that result from the two stages of delta modulation. We study C as a function of the sequence length W; the starting sample T in {b}; the time shift L between {b} and {B}; the signal-sampling frequency F; and a parameter P(≧ 1) which specifies the speed of step-size adaptations in the delta modulators. (P = 1 provides nonadaptive, or linear, delta modulation.) Computer simulations have confirmed that for small time shifts L and for statistically adequate window lengths W, C is a strong positive number (0.4, for example). Moreover, the C function tends to exhibit a maximum Cmax at a small nonzero value of L (between 1 and 5, say) reflecting a delay introduced by the low-pass filter preceding the second delta modulator; and when W is on the order of 100 or more, the dependence of Cmax on the starting sample T is surprisingly weak. Also, in the range of F and P values included in our simulation, Cmax increased with F and decreased with P. Finally, the positive C values for small L are retained even when the delta modulators are out of synchronization in amplitude level and step size, as long as the delta modulators incorporate leaky integrators and finite, nonzero values for maximum and minimum step size. With a given T, the C(L) function can exhibit significant nonzero values even for large L. However, these values are both positive and negative; and if correlations are averaged over several values of T, the average C(L) function tends to be essentially zero for sufficiently large L (L ≧ 100, say), while still preserving the strong positive peaks at a predictable small value of L. This observation is the basis of an interesting application"
 "Low-loss optical fibers may be necessary for economical optical tranamieeion sy.stema. We have developed fibers that exhibit losses of lese than 2 dB/km. at 1.06 µm. The fibers were made by a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) technique that employs simultaneous reaction and fwdon to a clear glassy core material."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: systems and packaging; high-voltage applications; circuit reliability; analysis of inverters and DC-DC converters; and high-power circuits."
"Presents conference paper selection criteria."
"Presents the table of contents for this conference."
"Presents photographs from the conference."
"Presents highlights from the 1974 IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference."
"Presents a listing of the conference committee."
"Presents a listing of the conference registrants."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"While the environment in which power processing circuits are finding application varies significantly, it has been repeatedly demonstrated that there is essentially a common core of technology from which the varied circuits and devices are developed. It is the desire to exchange ideas on this common core of technology that motivates many power electronic specialists to attend a meeting such as this. Moreover, a glance at the technical program indicates that the fifth annual Power Electronics Specialists Conference has indeed presented ideas and concepts which are “challenging the frontiers” of our technology."
"It is a pleasure to participate in the opening of this Fifth Annual Power Electronics Specialists Conference by welcoming you on behalf of Bell Laboratories to our grounds here at Murray Hill and to the use of these conference facilities. From a careful look at the program of papers, one can predict that this conference will be an effective and interesting technical forum."
"Provides a summary of the conference session."
"A description of the organization of the Electronic Power Systems Laboratory at Bell Laboratories is given. An overview of the variety of power converter developments in the laboratory is presented citing typical applications. The standardization effort in power is described outlining progress to date. Finally, the activities in various support functions are discussed."
"A familiar power inverter circuit, combined with a ferroresonant transformer and a simple control circuit, provides the basis for an economically attractive modular family of DC to DC converters. The circuit is readily adaptable to a wide range of input voltages and single or multiple output voltages."
"A tuned collector, resonant feedback, saturated current oscillator circuit is described and analyzed for powering AC corona generators in electrostatic copying machines. The oscillator circuit is modeled as a nonlinear feedback control system and then linearized by the method of Harmonic Linearization. The resulting transfer function is utilized to establish design equations and to show the sensitivity of the constant current regulation characteristic to variations in circuit parameters. Waveforms and emperical data from a working example are included to show the regulation and adjust features of the circuit."
"A method for the design of a high-voltage solid insulation system used in airborne or satellite high-voltage components and systems is presented, and illustrated with a successful system now used in these applications. The design is based on the elimination of corona in the solid, and principally involves making an insulation with a very high corona inception voltage and then controlling the electric field stress below that level. Examples of actual components and systems designed in this way are shown."
"Thermal stress cracks have been observed in high voltage solid encapsulated transformer cells resulting from stress concentrations of the order of 10 at the interface between a copper plated shield and the resin. These cracks result in a degradation of CIV by a factor of 6. They are characterized by corona pulse spectra having very high amplitudes. Pulses of 50 to 500 pC have been observed at an overvoltage of only 10 to 15 percent."
"The dynamic turn-on characteristics of inverter type SCR's can be employed to achieve high current densities with short rise times (106a/cm2μs). Little carrier modulation occurs during these turn-on times which results in large forward voltage drops. Resultant dissipations necessitate short pulse width operation but repetition rates up to 50KHz are reported. By comparing turn-on voltage waveforms of specially developed 35A (rms) devices when gate and dv/dt triggered, it was concluded that about 50% of the gate triggered emitter area is effective during the rise time interval. These devices were life tested and should prove usefull as modulators for radar or GaAs injection laser applications. It was determined that the properly designed SCR could out-perform all of the functions served by: 1) Avalanche transistors in laser pulsers, 2) Hydrogen thyratrons, ignitrons and spark gaps in radar modulators and, 3) High speed (turn-on) switching transistors where turn-off is not critical."
"Summary only given, as follows. Processing “High Voltage”, be it several hundred or thousands of volts, is a unique field in power electronics. The designer is faced with many new challenges in instrumentation, circuit design, materials and packaging. Special attention must be paid to component stress levels, mechanical layout and environmental conditions in order to avoid the damaging effects of corona and high voltage breakdown."
"The interaction of high voltage systems immersed in a space plasma environment can cause power loss and damage to insulators and metal surfaces. Work in this area is reviewed and recent results presented."
"Pulse-position modulators are used for remote sensing of analog signals in a high-voltage constant-current dc power supply for a wideband submarine cable system. The pulse-position modulators translate the sensed analog signals into the time domain in the form of time delayed pulses. The transfer characteristics of the modulators are linearized and made insensitive to clock frequency and other sources of timing errors by use of a demodulator feedback circuit. The modulators are operated synchronously by a common clock. The clock also establishes a precisely quantized time frame which is useful in processing the modulator output signals. A variety of closed and open loop control functions, level monitoring functions, and both analog and digital metering functions are realized. Pulse transformers are used for dc isolation and common mode noise rejection."
"A power processing system design for a space-type high power (200W RF) multi-stage depressed collector traveling wave tube is described. Operating requirements are set forth and a block diagram is presented illustrating the overall approach used in providing the requisite outputs. The basic power circuit is illustrated and overall performance, design characteristics and unique features are discussed. A power processing system (PPS) consists of various circuits which convert 76 Vdc power (and limited amount of 28 Vdc power) to the levels necessary for operating a high power, ten collector coupled cavity TWT. The following supply outputs and functions are provided: . -11.3k Vdc regulated cathode supply. . Multiple depressed collector supply (10 collectors, ranging from 0 to -11.3k Vdc). . +150 to +550 Vdc adjustable anode supply. . Current regulated (7 W max.) cathode heater supply. . Coπmand and protection logic system. . Telemetry signal conditioning. . Thermal heater control system. The discussion presented covers system design considerations (as affected by the special load interface characteristics of a multiple collector TWT), the primary PPS high voltage power circuit, high voltage components and design, grounding and isolation philosophy and PPS performance characteristics including fault protection, efficiency and weight."
"The voltage multipliers using capacitors and diodes first developed by Cockcroft and Walton in 1932 were reexamined in terms of state of the art fast switching transistors and diodes, and high energy density capacitors. Because of component improvements, the voltage multiplier, used without a transformer, now appears superior in weight to systems now in use for dc-dc conversion. An experimental 100-watt 1000-volt dc-dc converter operating at 100 kHz was built, with a component weight of about 1 kg/kW. Calculated and measured values of output voltage and efficiency agreed within experimental error."
"Anticipated future spacecraft requirements have motivated research on high power, high voltage dc to dc power processors. Therefore, a LC series resonant inverter utilizing silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR's) or thyristors as power switches has been developed as the main power stage of the ion engine power processor over an input of 200 to 400Vdc, and an output of no load to 2.5KW. Because of sinewave currents in the thyristors and self commutation by means of the LC series resonant circuit, operating frequencies up to 20 Kilohertz have been demonstrated. A screen supply breadboard operating at 20KHz and using 3-year old thyristors was tested at 90% efficiency. The estimated efficiency at 10KHz and using presently available interdigitated and amplifying gate thyristors is 94%. Protection of power source and power semiconductors from current surges is inherent during startup and output overload or arcs due to the current limiting action of the series resonant tank. This inherent current limiting feature of the series resonant inverter, the ruggedness of the thyristors and the large derating factors which are achievable with thyristors,insure optimum power systems, power processing equipment and component reliability. A complete power processor utilizing series resonant inverters was produced for the 30cm mercury ion engine. Thermal vacuum operation and integration with a 30cm ion engine has been demonstrated."
"A high performance 10 kHz switching line regulator featuring isolated drive with full dynamic range is described. Also described are a wide-band isolated output sense circuit and suitable compensation extended transient response beyond the resonant frequency of the output filter. This switching regulator was designed and developed as part of a program sponsored by NASA Lewis Research Center, Contract No. NAS 3-17223, under the direction of Jim Sovey."
"Many new applications for Power Electronics lie ahead in rapid transit, in new control functions within the AC distribution network and critical energy generation areas."
"In the electrochemical power industry, substantial improvements in control reliability may be realized by extensive inplant tests of the controls under stress (notably temperature). This paper describes a series of test conditions to which first components and then finished controls are subjected. One example of resulting reliability is given."
"Carrier Corp. represents a potentially large market for power electronics. We sell, annually, approximately one billion dollars worth of electro-mechanical equipment to consumer, commercial, and industrial markets. We purchase about $84 million worth of electrical equipment, including over $20 million worth of controls, mostly relays, contactors, and switches. A small portion of that $20 million is now electronic, mostly temperature controls and motor overload protectors. Potential applications include solid-state reduced-voltage starters for centrifugal compressors. The two major considerations in qualifying any electronic product are cost and reliability."
"Power semiconductors are opening up vast new areas of electrical engineering which were too complex, or too unreliable, or too costly to be attractive previously. Often the standard semiconductor ratings are not applicable. The paper discusses the design engineers reliability problems and covers one approach to this problem. Design charts for surge networks are included."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Power semiconductor devices are often the key elements in power electronic equipment. Thus it is important that there be a forum for communication between the device designer and equipment engineer. This conference will help both the user and the supplier of components learn more about semiconductor devices and how they are used."
"A new CAD-model of a GTO-thyristor has been developed, including non-linear junction recovery, lateral currents through the conductivity-modulated base layers and external circuit conditions. Computed results give a real time transient response of charges, currents and voltages. A comparison will be made between theoretical and experimental results of a test sample. Agreement is shown to be satisfactory for a quantitative estimation of the actual device characteristics. Further, turn-off time variation due to device parameter fluctuations will be predicted for wide p-base samples."
"The limits of stable operation are investigated for various current densities. A model of the destruction mechanism for high current densities is proposed considering heat flow and the appearance of an axially localized temperature peak."
"Differences between the measured thermal impedance of power transistors when determined by the pulsed heating curve and cooling curve techniques are discussed. These differences are shown to result primarily because the power density distributions of these devices change as the devices heat; as a result of these changes the heating curve and the cooling curve are not conjugate. It is shown that the cooling curve technique, when the cooling curve is initiated from the most non-uniform steady state thermal distribution, (maximum voltage, maximum power) will indicate a larger value for the thermal impedance than will the pulsed heating curve technique, even for pulses in excess of the d-c power level. A one dimensional model for power transistor cooling is described. The theoretical predictions of the model are shown to be in good agreement for practical applications with three-dimensional computer simulations and experimental results. Using this model, it is possible to estimate an average junction temperature and the area of power generation at steady state. Both T0-66 and TO-3 encased devices of mesa and planar structures were included in this study."
"The influence of stored collector charge on inductive turn-off behavior is considered. Simple models are described which predict the observed behavior of second breakdown energy ESB as a function of reverse base drive and collector inductance."
"The current distribution in silicon power transistors operating in the saturation region has been determined by imaging the near-infrared recombination emitted by the transistor. It was found that the overlap diode model for the transistor provides a far better description of the current distribution than the more commonly-used one-dimensional Ebers-Moll model."
"The current capacity of a solid-state device, as ordinarily rated, varies widely depending on the current waveform, duty cycle, case temperature, etc. The underlying junction temperature limits should, however, be invariant. This paper presents a new analytical approach to the determination of dissipation and junction temperature in solid-state diodes and thyristors when subjected to either repetitive or surge currents of arbitrary waveforms. Both the on-state voltage and the transient thermal impedance are represented by power-law functions which can be closely fitted to the actual characteristics. Relationships are derived which permit the arbitrary current waveforms to be replaced by equivalent constant currents for which the temperature rise is easily calculated. The adoption of ratings based on this approach would permit simplification of the device manufacturer's data sheet, greater generality in dealing with non-standard waveforms, and efficient utilization of computer analysis."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The international flavor of the conference is clearly reflected in this session, where, three of the six papers are by Japanese authors. We welcome their participation and hope that their willingness to travel so great a distance is a measure of the caliber of the conference. In making their presentations, they exhibited a high degree of linguistic as well as technical ability."
"This paper describes a method of designing a thyristor frequency converter for a source of induction heating, which converts three phase input power of power frequency to single phase high frequency power without using the intermediate D.C. link. How to determine the circuit constants and the rating of necessary devices such as inductors, capacitors, and thyristors is described with circuit analysis. This design is carried out by the combination of calculating some approximated mathematical expressions and using computer simulation. It is shown that this method is successful in quick determination of parameters."
"Power distribution through use of semiconductor switches has not been possible because high current devices with adequate turn-on turn-off times have been unavailable. By switching integer cycles of the generator into the load as determined by a feedback sensor, one can obtain much faster control and more efficient use of the generator. Such a system as has been designed and used at Motorola for four different loads is described below."
"Surface acoustic waves have many useful characteristics. One which has not previously received much attention is the fact that the input and output terminals are highly isolated electrically. This characteristic can be employed advantageously in high-voltage thyristor firing systems. We will describe the design of such a system and present experimental results."
"Analysis of current sharing in multiple parallel power diode assemblies highlights the significance of bus-bar inductance. Some mutual inductances are demonstrated to be advantageous and practical design guidelines for multiple parallel diode rectifiers are given."
"Calculations of the low frequency rectification efficiency of power Schottky diodes show that silicon Schottky rectifiers have lower losses than silicon p-n junctions for all voltage applications up to approximately 150 volts. These calculations are presented. Large area (.6 cm2) Schottky diodes have been fabricated which exhibit near ideal reverse leakage at 100°C out to approximately 100 volts and which have current capability of 100 A. Fabrication details and performance data are presented."
"Complentary power FETs having triode-like characteristics were found to have larger power capability than bipolar transistors and to be very suitable for high power applications. It is described that applying these devices to an audio amplifier a number of merits in characteristics and reliabilities can be obtained. The design theory is developed for these devices. Especially, the amplification factor is derived theoretically using the improved model for the vertical structure and the results shows qualitatively a good agreement with the data obtained from actual devices. The transition of characteristics from pentode-like to triode-like was verified experimentally taking the ratio of channel length to channel thickness as a parameter. The fabrication techniques are described briefly."
"Although this is the fifth conference in the series, it is only the third that has included a session on Analysis Techniques. The session was introduced into the program in the belief that this area deserved greater attention and would provide a cornerstone to which application oriented sessions could be referred. In its two previous years, the Analysis session has been well received, and this year four out of the six papers present developments or extensions of work reported in the previous years."
"A family of four static dc-to-square-wave transistor inverters has been analyzed employing state-plane techniques to describe the quasi -harmonic mode of oscillation commonly encountered in this family, as well as the less familiar relaxation oscillation and its limiting case, discontinuous oscillations. Design guidelines are provided through a study of the sensitivity of parameter changes which affect the oscillation characteristics of the inverter and its frequency stability. The analysis of one particular inverter of this family in which the avalanche breakdown of the transistor emitter-to-base junction occurs is presented. Finally the starting characteristics of this family of inverters are discussed with two illustrative examples. It is shown in this paper that close relationships exist between the family of LC tuned inverters and the previously analyzed saturable-core transistor inverters."
"A procedure for classifying dc-to-square wave two-transistor parallel inverters which are widely used in power-conditioning applications has been presented. This classification scheme is based on the idea of reducing the inverters to equivalent RLC networks. They are then grouped with other inverters which have the same basic equivalent circuit. The distinction between classes is based on such features as the topology of the equivalent circuits; i.e., series or parallel combinations; the number and type of nonlinear elements involved; and the type of resistive characteristic derived; i.e., voltage controlled or current controlled."
"A describing-function approach to characterize analytically the frequency response and to design accordingly the feedback compensation of a staggered-phase boost regulator with two-loop control is presented. It is concluded analytically that the uncompensated major loop gain has a significant frequency range where magnitude is inversely proportional to the square of frequency and where phase lag is approximately 180 degrees, so required phase-lead feedback compensation is designed. A comparison between computed and measured loop gains of the compensated major loop gain confirms the analytical model."
"The stability analysis of a buck regulator with DC and AC feedback loops has been investigated theoretically for the continuous conduction mode by applying the z-transform method. The analysis has been extended to the discontinuous conduction mode by means of an analogue computer simulation. These last results have been verified successfully on an existing breadboard. It appears that the introduction of the AC loop allows fast transients independent of the output filter parameters and improves the overall stability of the single loop regulator."
"Using frequency domain techniques, this paper derives several boundedness (stability) conditions for pulse-modulated systems. These conditions extend the frequency approach to systems without strict sector non-linearities."
"A technique for deriving a linear model for pulse width modulated converters is presented, which is similar to a Thevenin equivalent circuit. The linear models for the boost, buck, and boost-buck power stages are derived. The technique is applicable to other configurations and variations of pwm converters as well. The pulse width modulated power stage switch and diode may, in general, be replaced by a transformer and a dependent current source. As a result, the model can be very efficiently programmed on ECAP or any other linear circuit analysis computer program."
"The capability of the d.c. converter employing pulse width modulation to attenuate a periodic disturbance in the voltage es of its source of electric energy is examined. The attenuation of this disturbance is linked to the effects of pulse modulation and of the therewith associated feedback control process. Limitations for the attenuation of the harmonic content of es as imposed by the pulse modulation process are indicated."
"Provides a summary of the conference session."
"High voltage dc transmission was perhaps the earliest major application of power electronics by the electric utility industry. Modern electronics has transformed hv dc transmission technology, and different solid-state systems within converter stations now routinely handle power in the range of mW to GW."
"Designers of high-power circuits have not previously been able to quantitatively estimate the design tradeoffs which are available between the blocking voltage, current density, and turn-off time of a thyristor. In this paper, a new tradeoff relationship is derived by combining simple relationships from well-known device theory. The constants in this relationship are empirically adjusted to correlate with present commercial thyristors. The relationship shows that for a given turnoff time there is a corresponding blocking voltage which allows a given thyristor size to control the maximum load power. It also shows the penalties involved for other choices of these ratings. Generalized plots will help the circuit designer to more fully understand the interaction of device tradeoffs and circuit tradeoffs. The relationship emphasizes the thermal basis for current ratings, and also provides an objective means for comparing various thyristors."
"This paper describes the 12.5 kVA dc link inverter being developed by Delco Electronics - Santa Barbara Operations for USA MERDC, Ft. Belvoir, Virginia. The inverter can produce 120/ 208 volts three-phase, 120 volts single-phase, or 120/240 volts single-phase power at 60 or 400 Hz. It has an efficiency of 84 to 94% and a breadboard weight of 150 pounds. Based on a patented design concept (No. 3,725,767), the inverter generates stepped wave and square wave voltage segments which are combined as a three-phase composite to produce line-to-line waveforms of 4% total harmonic content before filtering. Study results show that the basic inverter concept can take several circuit forms, and can be developed with ratings up to 100 kVA. The inverter is being developed as a candidate for the Army 15 kVA general purpose power conditioner, and as such must conform to MIL-STD-1332B and MIL-STD-461A."
"Half cycle solid state circuit breakers, which can cut off fault current in a half cycle, have been put into use. These circuit breakers seem uneconomical because a large number of thyristors are required to be connected in parallel to withstand large fault current. Recently, the authors developed two new economical types of current limiting solid state circuit breakers (CLSCB) for AC three-phase 440 V and DC 750 V industrial power lines. These CLSCB's operate at a fault current limit of 5000 A, AC or DC, where total performance time to circuit interruption is less than 250μsec. This paper deals with the CLSCB's which have fault current interruption and load power control functions."
"A current source inverter combined with a controlled slip induction motor is a reliable and rugged ac drive system. The majority of the inverters in use today are the voltage source type using auxiliary impulse commutation. However, recent advances in SCR blocking voltage capability are making the complementary impulse commutated current source inverter a viable competitor. Because inverter and machine behavior are highly interdependent, a computer simulation was developed to study the system; simultaneously, a 100HP system was built and tested in the laboratory. The paper compares voltage and current waveforms from the laboratory model with those from the computer simulation. The excellent correlation obtained between computer and test results demonstrate that optimization of system parameters and prediction of system performance can readily be accomplished by computer simulation."
"Use of the same electrical machine for both starting an engine and then supplying electrical power is an old concept. The VSCF starter generator system is a modern mechanization of this idea. It is an all AC conversion system plus a wound rotor salient pole machine. During the start, the system functions as a brushless DC machine with 400 Hz supplied to it. After the start is completed, the output of the machine, now operating as a synchronous generator driven at variable speed, is converted to constant frequency (VSCF) 400 Hz power. No major power circuit changes are required to change mode."
"Presents the author index from this conference."
    "Besides noting the progress in recent years, the prospects of further development are set forth as to the volume of motion-picture production, release printing and distribution, the number of theaters and their capacity. Various cinema systems are covered: Academy format, 35mm anamorphic, wide-screen and 70mm, and transition from one format into the other. Besides development of stereoscopic and varioscopic cinematography, intended for professional purposes and non-theatrical presentation at exhibitions, museums, etc., there are prospects of using holographic methods. The trends in 16mm and 8mm systems are considered. The basic features are outlined for such as camera optics and equipment for film shooting, lighting equipment, special-effects methods, sound recording and location shooting equipment. There are also technical novelties in the field of acoustics and sound stage equipment. Using TV technology and magnetic video-recording for film production of feature films are evaluated. New features of technological processes, raw film stock and equipment for film processing, printing and quality control are considered. Basic features in motion-picture theater design are given, with specifications of widely used and new unified equipment for projection, sound recording and reproduction and power supply. The results of using xenon lamps in cinema theaters are reported. The present state of the art and prospects for more automatization of film presentations in theaters are described, including an automatic system for entire film distribution and exhibition control, based on computer technique."
             "The principles and main properties of modern bleach-fixing baths were outlined in an earlier paper by the authors (Jour. SMPTE, 82: 542–547, July 1973). The present paper gives the results from a long-term performance of the bleach-fixing baths with Gevacolor Print Films. Special attention was given to the desilvering and rejuvenation of the used blix, based on metallic replacement (steel-wool cartridges). In order to increase the efficiency of the cartridges and to avoid an excessive build-up of iron EDTA in the bleach-fixing bath, the technique of prereduction is applied. After passage through the cell, the oxidizing properties of the bleach-fix can be restored by aerating the solution vigorously."
"After a brief historical survey, the problems connected with the quality of optical dye soundtrack on Gevacolor Print Film 9.85 are studied. It may be concluded that the use of T 9.85 permits the omission of the hazardous technique of redevelopment without influencing the frequency or the cross-modulation characteristics of the soundtrack. Due to the specially selected bathochrome cyan dye of Gevacolor Print Film T 9.85, only a slight loss in amplitude is noted, when a conventional S1-equipped soundhead is used."
"A systems type of approach is recommended when one attempts to design a new system for a particular application — such as a 16mm camera for filming news and documentaries. In doing this, it is necessary (1) to consider the merits and demerits of existing equipment, (2) to remember that design is an ongoing process seeking an optimal goal and (3) to keep in mind the needs of the ultimate user of the new system — and therefore seek reliable and continuous feedback from him. This is what was done in developing the CP-16 and CP-16/A cameras for easy, efficient, on-the-shoulder operation. Some of the features of these systems include: a proven and reliable film-transport mechanism; compatibility with existing recording heads, lenses, etc.; light weight and good balance; extremely accurate crystal-controlled drive motor; operation with long-lasting plug-in batteries (making ac operation a very rare requirement); and the Crystasound recording/playback system to permit both “one-man-band” operation and very versatile operation with a soundman. Lastly, the cameras have been designed to be extremely easy to maintain."
"Electronic Data Processing (EDP) is developing at such a rate that engineers and designers not directly involved have the problem of not knowing the current state of the art. When the system designer desires to automate some process or operation he is faced with an unfamiliar technology; even the technical terms may have different implications when applied to different fields, for example, broadcasting and EDP. The integration of expertise in such different areas requires firm project management. This article describes some of the steps that should be taken to ensure success."
"The history and the inevitability of broadcast automation in general and the nature and operation of the Central Dynamics APC-610-200 station automation system in particular are described. This television station operating system is a stored-program, real-time computer system designed to provide automatic control of real-time operations such as switching, mixing, starting and logging of television master control equipment. In addition the system provides key/disc operation, on terminals, for the traffic operations of building, maintaining and analyzing the station schedule, over an extended period of time. The system accepts as inputs data from traffic operations (and/or the EDP equivalent), stores and manipulates it as required, and then employs it at the appropriate time to perform technical operations. As the system performs its work, logs of operations in both legal and accounting formats are generated along with records of discrepancies and last minute changes from the control room. The APC-610-200 performs these tasks essentially simultaneously and with minimal interference between data inputs, data outputs and technical operations. Only one method of schedule construction is discussed. The overall effects of automating a station have not been considered."
"Storage of a full frame of quantized television video using an all-digital memory has now become practical, thanks to the steady increase over the past few years of the data-rate capabilities of MOS shift register devices (now 5–8 MHz) accompanied by decreasing costs (now less than 0.4 cents per bit). The primary advantages of a digital frame store with real-time input/output capability are flexible data rate (as opposed to the fixed rate of a video disc) and long-term stability (as opposed to storage tubes). The recently-built system described in this paper utilizes digital frame storage to provide a flexible interface between standard television video, an Electron Beam Recorder using non-interlaced scanning, and a computer with a relatively slow input and output rate."
"See the February Journal, p. 81, for the introduction by SMPTE Editorial Vice-President Gerald G. Graham to this series of the case history of this one proposal related to the insertion of ancillary data within the television program signal. Installment 2 appeared in the March Journal."
"As noted in the March 7, 1972, SMPTE Comments to the FCC, a preliminary report of the Home Receiver Image Area Test was presented on February 5, 1972, to the SMPTE Winter Television Conference at Dallas, Tex.; subsequently, a full report was presented on May 3, 1972, at the Society's Technical Conference in New York by the author, R. J. Zavada (Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on Image Area), Eastman Kodak Co., Photographic Technology Div., Kodak Park, Rochester, NY 14650. Collaborators on the Test were Frederick J. Kolb, Jr., and Robert C. Lovick, both of Eastman Kodak Co. — This report contains a fuller description of the planning and execution of the test compared with the Comments to the FCC; all the data and conclusions submitted to the FCC remain the same and are included here."
        "Several techniques are developed for digital color decoding of NTSC television signals pulse-code modulated at 10.7-MHz rates (three times the color subcarrier frequency) and 14.3-MHz rates (four times the color subcarrier frequency). Digital comb filtering is also explored as a way to achieve superior color decoding. Encoding PCM NTSC television at the 14.3-MHz rate was found to afford the best algorithms for color decoding. A different PCM technique called Phase Alternating Line Encoding (PALE) permits encoding at 10.7 MHz and allows effective digital comb filtering and good color decoding. In the PALE technique, the phase of the 10.7-MHz digital encode command signal is inverted on adjacent television lines. Straight PCM encoding at 10.7 MHz is a poor third choice for comb filtering and color decoding applications."
"The necessity for recordings to be playable on any number of players in a variety of locations generally was not a serious consideration in the initial applications for helical videotape recording and playback equipment. More recently, however, with the increased use of helical color videotape in fully automated cable and hotel pay-TV origination systems, for advertising and sales promotion, and for expanded education non-interconnected networks, the need for optimum interchangeable performance has become acute. — The situation has been compounded, first by the large number of organizations providing a recording service, and second by the increasing number of manufacturing sources and formats for equipment and tape. The problems have grown to such proportions that they are no longer amenable to standardization on any one format through the work of industry technical committees. Instead, the question of the best format for each application undoubtedly will be answered in the market place by the users. On the other hand, industry activity appears likely to be directed toward the development of recommended practices for each of the different formats which are available from two or more manufacturing sources. — The following is a review in general terms of the requirements for interchange-ability and the joint action being undertaken by the industry technical organizations in the development of appropriate recommendations for standardization."
"Surface-wave acoustic delay lines are adapted to time-base correctors. The basic theory of operation is described. Particular emphasis is placed on the system design which employs the dispersive surface-wave delay lines. Of interest for the future are devices made by the same techniques and processes as used for the semiconductor industry. Surface-wave delay lines satisfy these criteria and therefore, future time-base correctors will no doubt be constructed of large blocks of integrated packages. Soon, time-base correctors with wider correction ranges and other desirable characteristics will be fit into a reasonably sized space at a reasonable cost."
"Edit. Note: After delivery of this paper on 18 October 1973 at the New York Conference the hotel's meeting room was not available for discussion, therefore discussion has been solicited by correspondence. Editorial production attention could not accomplish publication of discussion in the February Journal; however, upon publication of the one contribution below, further contributions will be welcomed for publication."
"The Foundation of Mosfilm Studios took place after the October Revolution on the site of old Moscow motion-picture enterprises, some very old stages built in the early days of silent movies. The production of a first feature motion picture, High Up on the Wings, was completed on January 24, 1924. This date was assumed as the foundation of Mosfilm studios."
"The meeting was called to order by the Executive Vice-President, as Chairman, at the conclusion of the Get-Together Luncheon, and the Secretary was asked to conduct the business of the meeting. The Executive Director being in possession of 1015 signed proxies, a quorum was declared to be present in person and by proxy."
"Television broadcasts which include film clips in the super-8 format pose the question whether and for what purpose this format is appropriate for television use. Based on practical experience within the Bayerische Rundfunk (Bavarian Broadcasting System — BBS) the possibilities and limits for the integration of the super-8 format into television operations are discussed, together with prospects for development of image and sound equipment appropriate for television use."
            "Various 16mm production techniques are compared with 35mm by the “Format/Emulsion System” which uses a specified camera format with a calculable frame area and a specified film stock emulsion with a calculable information density. Films evaluated include the new Eastman color negative II film 5247/7247. Besides emphasizing the need for a full set of professional-quality 16mm anamorphic lenses, it is concluded that on a small budget high-quality motion pictures may be produced using Eastman Ektachrome Commercial film 7252 and shooting with a 16mm full-aperture for anamorphic wide-screen productions."
"Before describing the newest developments in this field, a short overview of the evolution of the liquid-gate technique since 1957 is given. For reasons briefly stated no specifically designed immersion-printing equipment existed until recently. Advantages and drawbacks of diverse liquid-gate printing techniques are discussed. General design conditions for total-immersion liquid-gate printers are enumerated. Specifically designed non-integrated CE printers are described in detail. It is shown that total-immersion liquid-gate printing can now be carried out easily as a normal routine operation in the three fundamental laboratory modes: continuous contact printing, step contact printing and optical printing. Equipment for these three purposes is now made available to the industry."
"To provide a theater for widely varying presentations such as drama, opera, concert and light music and entertainment shows and also alternatively for broadcasting requires a separation of theater acoustic design and equipment from those for audio for television. Besides the separation of theater and TV audio controls the lighting requires similar treatment and all arrangements must allow for only theater personnel to work when there is no broadcasting. The architecture and the equipment for this facility are described. NHK (Japan Broadcasting Corp.) started the construction of this Hall in April 1969 and brought it to completion in June 1973 at Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan."
 "A multi-channel PCM high-quality audio transmission system (for use on terrestrial and satellite radio-relay video facilities) has been developed for diplexing up to four 15-kHz audio channels onto a single video channel. This system, called DATE (Digital Audio for Television), was developed to provide a combined audio-with-video transmission system. The system has two sections: the ADA (analog-digital-analog) which converts the program audio into binary information and then back into audio; and the modem which provides the 5.5-MHz digital sub-carrier used to convey the binary audio information."
"Equipment capable of amplifying the light of visible images has been available for many years. The new CBS Color Light Amplifier (CLA), however, is the first device to do so without destroying color information. It was made to couple to a 16mm Arriflex motion-picture camera, but in principle it can also be used with color television cameras. Consisting essentially of a high-quality, electrostatic-type image intensifier between two specially designed color wheels, the unit provides a light gain of about 100. CBS News has used the unit at scene light levels as low as 0.05 fc (0.54 lm/m2). The CLA weighs 8 lb (3.6 kg) and lengthens the Arriflex camera by 11.3 in (287 mm). An improved, smaller version is currently under development."
"Interactions between teachers and pupils in classroom situations may be studied and teaching techniques evaluated in a kind of “debriefing” if film and audiotape recordings are made synchronously during the class. In the technique described, filming is done at one frame every two seconds using two 16mm recording cameras — one with a fixed-focus lens, the other with a zoom lens. A number of microphones, including a lavalier radio-microphone, feed sound to a four-track, three-head recorder; camera-synchronizing signals are recorded on one of the tape tracks. A refinement of the technique, using a half-frame still camera and a synchronized cassette recorder, is also discussed briefly."
"The use of photographic surveillance has become quite widespread in the security industry. The recent introduction of high-quality super-8 time-lapse photography has broadened the use of photographic surveillance and extended this technique to the scientific and engineering fields. This paper describes the benefits of photography in these three areas (security, science and engineering). The characteristics of super-8 cameras along with the situations under which they can be successfully used are emphasized. Consideration is also given to the manner in which these cameras differ from the amateur cameras in both design and application."
 "Part I was presented in the February Journal. Part II completes an introduction for a Session on The Energy Crisis and Conservation on the forthcoming Los Angeles Technical Conference Program. The author will introduce the Session and serve as Chairman. The Advance Program on succeeding pages of this Journal gives details available in advance of the Conference."
"The geometrically defined relative apertures, f-stops, engraved on objective lenses, are quite imprecise as measurements of the amounts of light actually transmitted, especially for zoom lenses with their many glass-air interfaces. This can lead to errors in exposure as a consequence of reflection, absorption and other light losses within the objective. The problems and the needs for the standardization of true transmission stops are discussed. A photometric measuring method in accordance with the German standard draft DIN 19 010, sheet 2 (photoelectric exposure meters, automatic exposure adjustment in photographic cameras) is presented for discussion."
"See the February Journal, p. 81, for the introduction by SMPTE Editorial Vice-President Gerald G. Graham to this series of the case history of this one proposal related to the insertion of ancillary data within the television program signal."
            "Both preprogramming and automatic correction are in operational use in the BBC. It has been found that despite the care which is taken during filming and printing, variations of exposure and color from shot to shot are such that preprogramming is often necessary if fully satisfactory results are to be achieved. Preprogramming entails recording the settings of the color-correction controls determined during rehearsal and recalling those settings during transmission of the film so that they are applied to the correction unit at the same time as the error occurs. Automatic correction is provided by a unit which applies correction automatically to the red, green and blue signals at the output of the telecine. This unit allows different modes of operation (which may be selected separately): automatic black-level, automatic color balance, and automatic gain. The primary use of automatic correction has been for news film shot on reversal stock. Another promising field is the replay of old feature films which are, in some cases, of rather poor quality."
"One of the most important requirements for on-the-spot news coverage is flexibility and freedom of movement for the cameramen. Heretofore such freedom of movement was possible only with film cameras. Electronic Journalism, as envisaged by the author, requires a small, electronic, handheld color camera, self-powered, producing adequate picture quality, combined with a small, portable, self-powered magnetic recorder. Such a camera can produce images of better quality while providing a significant gain in time. This paper describes the components of the Robert Bosch KCR 40 camera developed to meet these requirements."
"The gathering of news for television has presented problems both different and more complex than those encountered in newspaper or radio work. Until now, television news has been served by a massive, costly global news film operation. Electronic News Gathering, introduced to improve the immediacy of news broadcasting, replaces the film camera with a television camera, videotape recorder, and a microwave relay. This paper describes the now routine operation of news gathering at CBS using electronic cameras, recorders and mobile microwave links. New equipment devised for the CBS News Gathering Operations is described, and the advantages over film systems of greater immediacy, lower cost, and other factors including quality are presented."
"By selecting state-of-the-art equipment of various vendors and custom building the necessary interfaces, it has proved possible to assemble a compact portable color television facility to complement a fixed studio facility and to produce pictures indistinguishable in quality from the fixed facility pictures. The new facility is transportable by step van or by air or other carrier and can be put in operation by three or fewer persons in less than 30 min. Among the off-the-shelf components of the facility are a color camera and camera control unit, a 1-in (2.54-cm) helical-scan VTR and time-base-control system, special-effects equipment, monitors, audio equipment, post-production equipment and a 12.5-kW generator. The packing cases for much of the equipment are integral with the equipment housings and consoles."
"The SMPTE through its many Engineering Committees has developed over the years, in addition to about two hundred standards, a large number of test films in the fields of motion-picture, sound-recording and television applications. These Engineering Committees specialize in such fields as film dimensions, projection practices, photoinstrumentation, laboratory practices, 16mm and 8mm motion pictures, sound recording and reproducing, videotape recording and reproducing, broadcast and cable television, color motion-picture applications and motion-picture equipment for television use. Through many regularly scheduled meetings and through a continuous flow of communications among all members of each committee, specifications for test films are developed by a painstaking process, starting with a proposal or suggestion, progressing through as many draft stages as may be necessary until, by general consensus, an agreement on the desired quality and characteristics is arrived at and production of a test film is undertaken."
           "Ever since the first lantern slide was projected, the impact of presenting visual messages to large audiences has excited men. Developments such as film and videotape, enhanced by the addition of sound and color, have extended the uses and the impact on our society."
"The MCA Disco-Vision system records audio-video information on a disc, replicates this disc accurately and inexpensively on plastic and finally plays the replicas on home television screens by means of a disc-player attachment. The production of a video record begins with a mastering process where the original program from any video source is recorded in real time as a geometrical pattern on the master disc. After mastering, this pattern is reproduced in the various replication steps leading to the production of multiple inexpensive plastic video records. Specifically, the mastering process uses a laser beam to cut holes in the coating of a master disc and thereby record information. After processing, this master is used to produce replica playback discs. The player reads the information on the playback disc by sensing the reflection of a 1-mW laser beam and recreating an electrical signal corresponding to the original information. The signal is then used to modulate an RF carrier on an unused TV channel and this modulated signal is connected to the TV set where it is processed within the set in the usual manner to produce a color picture and sound."
"This paper summarizes the current results of an effort to develop a video-disc system of reasonable simplicity and low cost with adequate video storage capability. The system uses silver halide films or their equivalent as the basic storage medium for the video signals. These film media offer numerous well-known advantages such as archival image quality, ease of duplication and low cost. A prime advantage of the film media is the possibility of storing video information on numerous layers of one disc, increasing the capacity of a disc. The video data on any given layer may be less densely packed, easing the requirements of the retrieval process; the total video information store and hence the playing time can be increased in direct proportion to the number of layers bonded into one disc. Film has other advantages in the recording and playback operations. Recording can be carried out in real time and subsequent processing of the master disc utilizes standard darkroom techniques with duplication accomplished by standard contact print techniques. Playback of the recorded information involves no material contact with the film surface; only a light beam, from a lasing or a normal light source, touches the disc. In the simplest playback configuration, a white light source illuminates the region of interest on the film. This region is projected by a lens system that presents an optical image which is directly accessible to detection and processing by well-known electronic means. The alignment of the light source, the objective, and the detector is noncritical, allowing the use of mechanical components of reasonable tolerance."
"Philips Technical Review 33, No. 7 (published 18 October 1973) four articles have been published on the video long-play system (VLP), which has been developed at Philips Research Laboratories (Eindhoven, The Netherlands). The first of these four articles explains how the information is recorded on a Philips video long-play record and how it is scanned by the playing equipment. The other three articles are about signal processing during both recording and playback, the optical system used in the player and the control systems. These articles gave a picture of the state of development in the beginning of 1973. Of course in the meanwhile further progress has been made. — drs. J. W. Miltenburg, Editor-in-Chief"
"On the ‘VLP’ record there is a single information track in which all the information is stored for the reproduction of a colour-television programme with sound. The photographic process used for writing the information on to the master record is highly nonlinear, and can therefore only be used for recording a signal with just two levels. The information can then only be present in variations in the distances between successive transitions from one level to the other. A system of coding will therefore be necessary if four or five signals are to be recorded simultaneously in this way (brightness, two colour signals and one or two sound signals)."
"The main function of the optical scanning system in the Philips ‘VLP’ record player [1] is to read out the video information recorded on the surface of the disc. To follow the information track on the record with the aid of a control mechanism it must also deliver a signal that is a measure of the lateral misalignment of the optical system in relation to the track. The video information is stored on the surface of the record in the form of small pits which are 0.8 μm wide, about 0.16 μm deep and of variable length. The pits are inscribed on a spiral track with a pitch of approximately 2 μm. The picture quality and mechanical accuracy of an optical system that can detect each pit individually and track the spiral sufficiently accurately to prevent cross-talk between adjacent turns of the track must meet extremely exacting standards. At the same time the system must be as simple as possible to produce and easy to adjust. Finally, care must be taken to ensure that the signal-to-noise ratio is sufficiently high. The article describes the optical system which we chose for the ‘VLP’ record player to satisfy these various requirements."
"The playing time and the bandwidth of the recorded video signal on the Philips ‘VLP’ record are such that the optical scanning system must be able to perceive extremely fine details when the record is payeld. This requires an optical system with a large aperture and consequently a small depth of focus. It is also essential that the beam of light used for scanning should be centred very accurately on the information-carrying track on the record. The requirements specified here are about 1000 times more exacting than is usual in mechanical engineering. For example, the record surface may differ by 100-500 μm from a true plane while the depth of focus of the lens used to centre the scanning beam on the record is approximately 1 μm. The eccentricity of the track may amount to 100 μm, while the beam of light has to be kept centred on the track with an accuracy of 0.2 μm to avoid cross-talk [1]. To ensure continuous tracking of the information contained in a spiral of pits pressed in the surface of the record, the entire optical system has to be displaced on average by 2 μm radially for each revolution. Finally, a high-quality playback of the detected colour-television signal is only obtained if the speed at which the record rotates is constant to within at least 1 part in 103"
"An experimental videodisc playback system has been developed using a thin flexible transparent plastic disc as the information carrying medium. The information is read out by transmitting HeNe laser light through the disc. Information is stored on the disc in the form of pitted tracks or hill-and-dale modulated grooves. The player has a simple optical path and servo system. A magnetically driven two-axis mirror controls the light beam independently in the radial and tangential directions, providing excellent radial tracking and time-base correction. Vertical focusing of the light beam is maintained by aerodynamic stabilization of the disc. A high-frequency carrier is frequency modulated with the chroma and luminance information. Luminance bandwidth is equal to that normally used in NTSC receivers. Tentatively, the sound has been put on its own FM carrier at a low frequency. A transcoder converts the disc signal into an NTSC signal on a VHF carrier. Because the disc is transmissive, both sides can be played without crosstalk merely by adjusting the focal plane of the laser light spot; the disc itself need not be repositioned. Track spacings as close as 9,000 tracks/cm (0.39 in), corresponding to a playing time of 4 min 43 s/cm, have been achieved experimentally with acceptable crosstalk between tracks."
"Brigham Young University, associated with the Mormon Church, is one of the world's largest users and producers of audiovisual materials. In recent years, the University has been adopting such new information technology as multichannel interactive cable television, computer-aided instruction and audio- and videotape to supplement its live and filmed instruction. Recent developments in videodisc technology are being watched with great interest in hopes of finding ways to reduce both the bulk of audiovisual materials and the costs of storing and transmitting information. A consensus of cost estimates — comparing videodisc with other media — is given."
"Careful study of the characteristics of the major videodisc systems reveals a number of areas of concern. I have selected six general categories that I believe require thorough investigation in evaluating any videodisc system."
"Harry Hausmann (KTLA): Relating to our experience with videotape and points discussed yesterday about using an FM modulator carrier, what problem have you had with moiré?"
"A machine is described which was developed at Bell Laboratories at Holmdel, N.J., in connection with the PICTUREPHONE® program to provide high resolution graphics transmission capability. This particular machine was designed using commercially available components. A low-power, 10-mW, continuous-wave helium cadmium laser is used to scan simultaneously an 8½- by 11-in (21½- by 28-cm) page original and a 24 × reduced image on vesicular diazo heat developable film. A 1400-picture element by 2000–line image, with full gray scale, is transmitted over a 0.5-MHz line in 4 seconds, and developed in less than one second. Each machine is a transmitter-receiver capable of local copy. Applications, operating modes and results are presented."
"To ensure accurate, well-written documents which portray the technological agreements expressed through American National Standards and SMPTE Recommended Practices, the Society had developed a system of engineering committees, each playing an important role in a carefully controlled program. Recognizing a growing need to expand and update the program to cover demands of new responsibilities, a trial reconstruction plan has been initiated as a field test for a proposed reorganization of the SMPTE Engineering program. The modifications and functions of each step in the proposed reorganization are explained in detail"
  "After the SMPTE's filing with the Federal Communications Committee the tutorial reports on “Ancillary Signals in Television Broadcasting,” subsequently published in the February, March and April 1974 Journals, a continuing need for information was recognized. The matter was taken up by the Joint Committee on Intersociety Coordination which established the Ad Hoc Committee on Television Broadcast Ancillary Signals, the organization and administration of which became the responsibility of the National Association of Broadcasters (see the Interim Report by Robert A. O'Connor, December 1973 Journal, pp. 1017–1020). Subsequently an SMPTE Working Group with R. J. Zavada as Chairman was charged with investigating the technology for program identification. The Chairman's informal report at the recent SMPTE Conference Get-Together Luncheon follows"
      "A speculative appraisal is presented of the impact of the various parameters — economic, philosophic, material and psychological — that have affected and will continue to affect the motion-picture industry. The psychological aspects of the change may be as difficult to face as those which are more precisely defined as technical or economic. In the future the industry must be much more aware of the growing list of options in media techniques and materials and must be equally conversant with the dissemination channels possible in order to serve its customers more effectively. Filmmakers must either assume broader communication perspectives or be content to fill a lesser role as component suppliers to meet someone else's specifications. Certain trend-producing activities are noted and a number of conclusions are given regarding the future of the film industry. — There is likely to be a period of dislocation and economic adjustment as the labor-intensive film industry attempts to interface with the capital-intensive electronic systems. Somewhere in this continuum of personnel and technical resources methods must be found to preserve conceptual innovation and perceptive insights and, at the same time, to increase program output to meet an expanding mosaic of real-time audience needs."
"An experimental system for monitoring and measuring test signals inserted in TV lines 19 and 20 of the British 625-line PAL color TV signal has been undergoing evaluation by the Independent Broadcasting Authority. Measurements are made automatically, using a fast analog/digital converter and digital computer, of signals received over the air from various UHF relay stations in the Midlands region of the U.K., and alarms may be given if any of 15 parameters exceeds a preset limit. The parameters consist of five luminance parameters (2T-pulse “width” and “lobes,” “bar-tilt” and 2T pulse-to-bar ratio, and luminance (staircase) nonlinearity); five sync signal parameters (color-burst amplitude, duration and position and line sync pulse width and amplitude); and five chrominance parameters (differential gain, differential phase, chrominance-to-luminance gain and delay ratios and chrominance-to-luminance crosstalk). Examination of cost considerations revealed that the centralized monitoring method is more economical than an alternative method if more than three stations must be monitored."
"In a television system of constant line and field frequencies, line interlace of order higher than 2:1 offers an improvement in vertical resolution without an increase in bandwidth. Large-area flicker, line crawl and bright/dim line pairing can be reduced to the point where they are not offensive by proper choice of interlace order and line sequence. Particularly good sequences appear to result from (N–3/5) and (N–4/7) lines/field, which gives 5:1 or 7:1 interlace respectively. Using a normal TV phosphor (P4) in the display CRT, the improvement in subjective resolution is clearly noticeable although less than the factor of 2.5 or 3.5 to 1 expected for 5:1 or 7:1 interlace. A long-persistence phosphor (P38) gives the full increase in subjective resolution."
"A combination of high-order line and dot interlace can be used to reduce the repetition frequency of a TV picture without materially altering the line and field frequencies. The benefit of reduced repetition frequency is an increase in the number of picture elements that can be transmitted in a specified bandwidth. Combined interlace is therefore a possible method for increasing the resolution of an existing TV system, provided some break-up of moving pictures can be tolerated. For Ith-order line interlace and Jth-order dot interlace, the picture period is IJ field periods and the number of picture elements is increased by the factor ½IJ over a normal 2:1 line-interlaced system. The total number of dot sequence patterns in which the raster can be scanned is IJ2. A general method is given for calculating these sequences, and the subjective effects of all sequences for I and J up to 7 are cataloged. About half the sequences are degenerate in that they belong to a lower order. The majority of the remainder are subjectively unacceptable because of flicker, line crawl, and snow-storm effects in the CRT display. A few good sequences do exist, however, and if the CRT has a long-persistence phosphor the product IJ can be at least as large as 40. It is therefore possible to transmit medium-resolution graphics (∼106 picture elements) in real time over a 1-MHz channel."
"Videotape is most commonly transcribed to film by photographing a shadow-mask picture tube. Although this method is capable of reasonably good results, shortcomings of the picture tube limit further advancements. It is generally recognized that improvements are needed mainly in resolution and color saturation. To achieve improved quality, the authors designed and built an experimental trinoscope recorder employing three separate picture tubes, one for each primary color. The three separate images are optically combined, registered, and photographed as a single image. The trinoscope is superior to the shadow-mask tube in several ways. It can give higher resolution, the phosphors can be selected to match the sensitivities of the recording color film, and it can produce a much brighter display. Slow films in the ASA 10 range can easily be exposed. — High-quality solid-state electronics provide a very stable display with good registration and permit extensive signal processing. The display tubes have flat faceplates of 5-in (127-mm) diameter and the phosphors are P20 for green, P22B for blue, and P22R-sulfide for red. A paper on improved shadow-mask recording techniques has been published by the authors1 and procedures for setting the trinoscope for correct color rendition are similar to those described in that paper."
"A cyclorama lighting system has been developed to provide significant power savings, a more uniform light distribution and greater color saturation. The new system uses fluorescent light sources with specially chosen phosphor and trimming filters to provide three independently controlled primary colors that match closely the primaries used in studio cameras. The reflector optics have been specially designed to achieve uniform distribution at high efficiency."
"A new light source developed by OSRAM GmbH, originally for remote television lighting, is now also being applied to film applications. The lamps high efficacy, daylight quality, full spectrum, compact size, ease of ballasting and rugged construction make them ideal for this service. They are available in 575-, 1200-, 2500-, and 4000-W sizes to meet the needs of various television and film lighting requirements. This new lamp family is an answer to the industry's search for advancements in lighting systems, especially heightened by the energy crisis."
"Relative advantages and disadvantages of two- and three-channel soundtracks as used in theaters and on television are described. A two-channel system was described in an earlier paper (Jour. SMPTE, 82: 292–295, Apr. 1973) but there are certain inherent disadvantages in the two-channel system. Based on later studies, a compromise system involving the use of two recorded tracks and a derived center channel has been developed."
"A system has been designed using recorder/reproducers with high-speed interlocked motor systems and a newly designed high-speed theater-type projector with automatic controls. The design achieves speed of operation resulting in reduced time for the re-recording process making it possible to accomplish more re-recording within a given time period."
"A new photometer has been designed for the measurement of screen brightness and other photometric parameters relating to projection quality. The photometer is a compact, handheld spot meter with see-through optics and an internal meter visible in the viewfinder. The photometer features a silicon photovoltaic cell and solid-state operational amplifiers for maximum accuracy, stability and repeatability, and a computer-designed glass filter for optimal matching to the spectral response of the human eye. The design, testing and application of the new photometer is described."
"A system is described which utilizes off-the-shelf components to assemble an aerial observation system for constant surveillance of the ground before, during and after an underground nuclear event. The system offers real-time video capability plus a high-speed film camera. Modifications made to the initial system design are explained."
                 "Subjective evaluations of four different shapes of random noise ranging from flat to triangular are reported to provide means of evaluating the effectiveness of different methods of specifying and measuring noise on international circuits used to transmit 525-line NTSC color TV signals. The general results indicate that the use of noise weighting is necessary and that a new compromise weighting achieved at a CMTT meeting in 1974 appears to be suitable for measuring noise on all international television transmission circuits regardless of the television standard being used. The effect of this compromise weighting on noise measurements concerned with 525-line signals is much the same as that of the weighting previously specified for use on 525-line systems."
"The economic advantages are discussed of using quadruplex cassette videotape recorders for program assembly. A better utilization of production manhours is effected by using cassette VTRs to perform the repetitive machine interactions, thereby freeing the production personnel for more creative duties. Storage of program segments on cassettes permits a greater access to a physically smaller library. For archival storage the tape can be removed from the cassette, the cassette reloaded and put back in service."
"Forced methods of drying processed motion-picture films take advantage of the principles of convective heat transfer and radiative heat transfer. Although in principle an infrared radiation source is good for this purpose because it can concentrate heat below the surface of the film, in the past there have been difficulties because different film densities absorb radiation differently, which leads to uneven drying and distortion of the film. An optimum infrared source would have a radiation spectrum corresponding closely with the film's absorption spectrum and during drying would maintain an equilibrium of moisture content between the emulsion and the base. Source-emittance and film-absorption characteristics were examined with an IKS-14 infrared spectrophotometer operating in the double-beam mode from 0.75 to 15 μm, A wavelength band was found in which variation in image density has little effect on the absorption of infrared radiation. A tubular metal emitter at a temperature of about 480 K (about 405 °F) is found to be nearly optimum."
"Designers of laser scanning systems which require several independently modulated wavelengths may find this approach useful. Multiple wavelengths are independently modulated in one acoustooptic cell by a multifrequency technique. Possible applications include television-film recording, color facsimile, and laser color displays."
"A chain of 60-seat automated-video minitheaters has been established across Canada from Vancouver, B.C., to St. John's, Newfoundland. Each installation has a Sony U-Matic color videocassette player Model VP-1000, an Advent Video-Beam™ color television projection system and sufficient electronics for everything to be operated by one person — the ticket seller in the boxoffice. Concessions are managed by vending machines. Six sources of programming are under contract with negotiations continuing to obtain more, and local Sony dealers are retained to provide installation, operator training and system maintenance. Although cassettes are now used, videodisc systems are being actively considered. Plans include a year of consolidation in 1974 along with a deliberate move into the U.S. market and examination of licensing possibilities in Europe, Australia and elsewhere."
                "The Equipment Exhibitors had an attractive display area, large, light and well ventilated. For those attending the Conference — either prospective purchasers or information seekers — the Exhibit was an interesting place to visit, with an immense variety of attractively displayed equipment and with pleasant, helpful attendants in the booths to answer questions. Of special interest was the location of the Exhibit area, close to the theaters where the papers were being held. — Particularly evident, even to a casual observer, was the increasing sophistication of the motion-picture equipment on display. It was also very encouraging to see that television manufacturers gave support to the Exhibit, as well as to the Technical Program."
 "The Get-Together Luncheon on Monday of Conference week was again chosen as the scene for the presentation of Awards by the Society. SMPTE President Byron S. Roudabush presented certificates or medals for eleven different awards. In addition, fifteen members of the Society were made SMPTE Fellows and received their certificates from Mr. Roudabush. The Award citations and brief biographies of the award recipients appear below."
"The question is examined of why, in the face of increasing competition from electronic systems, film not only survives, but finds increasing use as a serious program-making medium in television broadcasting. The effects of recent technical developments are considered — developments such as color negative film, crystal-controlled motors, lightweight cameras and large-aperture high-performance lenses. The electronic viewfinders which should become available during the next few years are examined, and the operational and quality consequences with particular reference to 16mm film are discussed."
 "This year's edition of the biennial Photokina exposition showed that professional motion-picture photography is not limited to 35mm or even to 16mm. Super-8 systems with single-band and double-band sound were very much in evidence. New developments in the fields of lighting, cameras, sound and editing systems and laboratory equipment are examined. Projection practice and slide display equipment are also covered."
"The 11th International Congress on High-speed Photography was held at Imperial College, London, England, on September 15-21. 1974. There were 350 delegates from 25 countries present. The Congress was under the direction of Dr. I. Maddock. He was ably assisted by E. S. Mallett, Steering Committee; J. A. Nunn, Secretary; R. J. North, Coordinator; and N. B. Prudence, Treasurer. The Working Committee was comprised of J. N. Whyte, Administration; S. Simonds, Social Secretary; R. J. Ronson, Papers Chairman; and G. Lunn, Facilities."
 "The brief reports published, are intended to reflect the large volume of work being carried on through the SMPTE Engineering Dept. and its committees. For more detailed information on the activities or the individual projects, one should contact Alex E. Alden, Staff Engineer of the SMPTE at headquarters. The Society welcomes participation by specialists from industry in the work of its Engineering Committee and all those who may be interested in exploring the possibility of active membership on any of the committees should contact A. E. Alden or W. T. Wintringham, Engineering Vice-President of the Society. While the Society is in a position to provide the mechanics for the development of National Standards, it relies heavily on the input made available through its Engineering Committee members by industry."
                 "An examination of the dimension of television picture noise attributable to videotape is presented. An improved measuring technique for correlating visual impairment is offered, which differs from the traditional technique in the use of a 100-kHz to 1-MHz band-pass filter in place of the 0- to 4.2-MHz filter. The measurement is made with the recorder demodulator gain set for 1-V peak-to-peak composite video output. On playback of an unmodulated grey-level carrier signal, the signal at the output of the demodulator was routed through this band-pass filter and the noise read directly on a wideband rms voltmeter."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss subjective scaling relative to the judgment of motion-picture or television images with the aim of arriving at a criterion (or criteria). The primary emphasis of this paper is on the various ways in which scaling methods may be classified, some of the judgment techniques which may be employed in obtaining the different scales and the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques. This paper is not concerned to any extent with the analytical procedures involved but deals primarily with the philosophy of obtaining and scaling subjective data."
"Color monitors are used for critical viewing in color television broadcasting and therefore must be routinely but carefully checked and if necessary be readjusted. Checking a monitor involves examining a large number of parameters (convergence, color temperature, phasing, gain and black-level setting, and a number of others), and at least three different test signals are normally required. It therefore seems reasonable to combine all the necessary test signals for all the parameters to be checked into one monitor test signal. Such a combination monitor test signal has now been developed; it requires only one channel and can be distributed readily throughout the broadcasting plant to be available whenever and wherever needed. Thus, because checking a color monitor is made easier, it is likely to be done more frequently, and this can result in an improved and more consistent broadcasting operation."
"The rapid growth of television broadcasting in the USSR clearly indicates an appreciation of its advantages as a medium for the rapid dissemination of information over an area as extensive as the USSR. Following a largely experimental period which was interrupted by World War II, emphasis in the 1950s was placed on the construction of television centers and transmitters in all the major population centers. After completion of about 100 of these by 1960, emphasis shifted to the expansion of network facilities to cover the entire country. This effort was greatly facilitated by the development of the “Molniya” satellite relay stations and the “Orbita” earth stations which made it possible to reach even the most remote areas of the country in the far east. Since ten time zones are covered in this manner, special measures are necessary to compensate for the time differences with respect to the Central Studios in Moscow. In recent years, emphasis has again shifted, this time to the upgrading of existing facilities, for example, the construction of the 1750-ft (533-m) antenna tower in Moscow as well as other similar projects."
"A standard alignment tape recorder for EIAJ type I VTR (STD-VTR), which was requested by the Electronic Industries Association of Japan (EIAJ), was developed. This recorder was especially designed considering durability, reliability and accuracy in order to maintain a high level for the standard. The main parts of the tape guide portion were made of high wear-resistant ceramic. The adjustment and calibration of the characteristics were performed very carefully. One of the most important functions of the standard tape is the skew characteristic, and, therefore, the tape tension was maintained within ±1 g by a closed-loop servo system using an air column. — In connection with the development of this recorder, the characteristics of EIAJ type I VTRs on the market were evaluated. There were some characteristic differences, but no serious problem of tape interchangeability between different manufacturers with the exception of the skew characteristics. The standard alignment tape will be applied in order to realize a yet higher tape interchangeability (including skew characteristics) as well as a more easy VTR operation."
"Because of the popularity of the Super-8 film format, the broadcasting organisations have investigated the conditions under which that format might be used as a programme source. Since 1970, Subgroup G3 of E.B.U. Working Party G, whose terms of reference cover the study of films intended for televising, has been engaged on that investigation; it has organised inquiries of the Members of the Union on their experiences of using Super-8 stock, and the subject has been included in the agenda of most of the meetings of that Sub-group. — Those inquiries and discussions made it possible to draw up the text reproduced below; it gives, in the form of an Opinion, a synthesis of the Sub-group's recommendations to television film departments."
"The meeting was called to order by the Secretary, as Chairman, at 10:00 a.m. The Executive Director being in possession of 1169 signed proxies, a quorum was declared to be present in person and by proxy."
               "As this is being written, the motion-picture and television industries, along with most others, are greatly concerned with the “energy crisis.” Suddenly there are shortages, imminent or actual, of almost every source of energy needed to keep our economy functioning. We have, or we forsee, shortages of electrical power and of gasoline, heating oil, propane and other fuels — all of which arc produced by or derived from petroleum. Moreover, we face shortages or projected shortages of plastics, petrochemicals, and other essential materials which arc also derived from oil. As a result, we are beginning to realize that no other crisis in recent years has portended such a drastic effect upon industrial-nation economics as this energy crisis — not gold crises, not import-export crises, not labor crises — nothing."
"Members of the Society may sometimes feel and, indeed, some have stated that few controversial issues appear in our Journal. If this is taken to mean espousing dramatic causes for sensational impact we must plead guilty. The society in which we live provides many other forums for such presentations. The clear responsibility of the scientist, engineer and technician is to define problems in tangible terms; to consider their effect on the objective criteria which define the acceptable limits of their specific disciplines and to make every effort to insure that their responsibility to maintain technical integrity in the public interest is exercised. In the cool and objective language of technology and the extended time base over which some questioned proposal or practice is debated the casual reader may fail to sense the conviction and dedication of those who seek to maintain the collective mandate of this Society in such situations. — In this and the next two issues of the Journal, you will have an opportunity to read the case history of one such proposal related to the insertion of ancillary data within the television program signal. In this particular debate the SMPTE has been concerned solely with the principle involved and its effect on image quality. Further, we respect and support the rights of those who propose changes. No meaningful progress can be achieved in our technology if principles are never challenged. — Past-President Wilton R. Holm will act as the historian for this series. We are particularly indebted to him, to Engineering Vice-President William T. Wintringham and the members of the Ad Hoc Committee for Coded Patterns as well as many other contributing members of the Society who combined their interdisciplinary talents so effectively in bringing this matter to a successful conclusion."
"In years past, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has authorized a variety of special signals inserted into or riding “piggyback” with the television program signal. These special or “ancillary” signals were included for a number of purposes, and without in any way adversely affecting the integrity of the program signal. But in 1970 the FCC amended its Rules and Regulations so as to permit transmission of coded patterns in the television picture area, which signals “shall not result in significant degradation of broadcast transmission.”"
"A new broadcast recorder (Fig. 1) is described with the technical reasoning leading to the choice of a 180°-wrap, two-head, segmented video format and the practical and economic benefits derived therefrom. The choice of segmentation schedule clearly demonstrates a subjective integration of saturation and hue variation between heads. Carrier frequency selection as well as writing speed are discussed in terms of performance objectives. Special problems arising from the use of ferrite heads are presented along with the solutions. Special features and descriptions of some of the circuits employed are included."
"A system for deriving timing pulses for the servo and time-base correction circuits of a videotape recorder is described in which digital techniques are extensively employed for maximum stability. These techniques provide a coordinated array of timing pulses which can be manually adjusted to accommodate cable and system delays and, in conjunction with other special machine features, can be moved automatically to provide error-free electronic editing."
"The IVC-9000 Servo System is designed to control tape motion and tension through all modes of operation. The reel controller, capstan, scanner, and tension systems are all position servos interacting to control precise transducers capable of accurate performance. Digital techniques have been applied throughout the system, providing such features as controlled lock-up and error memories for edit mode operation. Compact modular packaging provides convenience, and reliable, long-life design provides assurance of good performance."
"In recent years, there have been a number of changes in the field of videotape recording — in the technology and in user requirements. In view of these changes, an RCA engineering team was assigned the task of evaluating whether future high-quality video recorder designs should be quadruplex or helical scan. This paper reports on the results of that investigation and gives some thoughts on video recording in the future."
"Obstacles to obtaining high-quality sound from 8mm – Type S (super-8) optical soundtracks include the lack of a high-resolution (50 lines/mm) 8mm – Type S sound film, an SNR problem due to the lack of color dye elements that are good absorbers of infrared radiation, variances in the quality of laboratory printers and waveform distortion and high-frequency cutoff due to misalignments and film weaving. Some of these problems are beginning to be recognized and confronted in the industry, but the author still sees a particular need for a high-quality sound film. The multilateral variable-area recording technique is considered superior to both the bilateral and the variable-density techniques for recording on 8mm – Type S. Another definite need is for an official optical sound test film to permit meaningful evaluations of various sound systems and films."
"The factors are examined that need to be improved in order to achieve a substantial improvement in the quality of 8mm – Type S (super-8) sound using the variable-area optical sound approach. As a result of the study, Fuji Fine Grain Sound Recording Film (Variable Area) Type II was developed and is being sold on a trial basis. Being of superfine grain and ultrahigh resolution, this film is intended for sound recording use exclusively with the 8mm – Type S system; its panchromatic emulsion resembles that of high-resolution microfilm, and its speed is comparable to that of Fuji Type 72412 film. Actually realizing the benefits of using such a film, however, requires that a high-performance nonslip printer such as the Peterson printer be used in the printing stage. The use of Fuji Type II film and such a printer permits a 10-dB improvement in output at 5 kHz over other conventional systems."
   "This is a report of the Eighth Plenary Meeting of ISO/TC 36 on Cinematography which was held in Colonial Williamsburg, Williamsburg, Virginia, 10–17 December 1973."
        "The objective of current standards efforts in the U.S. television industry is to improve both the uniformity and quality of color television as viewed on the home receiver. U.S. broadcast colorimetric standards are based on the original NTSC primaries. However, the phosphors used in current television display devices are significantly different from those specified by NTSC. These phosphor differences result in a colorimetric mismatch that may cause significant color distortions in the display. — Receiver manufacturers in the U.S. have adjusted the color demodulation characteristics in their receivers to compensate for these phosphor changes. To resolve this problem in Europe, the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) has recently recommended that broadcast standards be changed to require matrixing for modern phosphors in all cameras. An alternative approach is to place a correction matrix in the display device and retain the NTSC primaries. After making a study of how this basic problem affects U.S. television, it appears to be preferable to retain the NTSC standards and to insert a correction matrix in the display device that will compensate for the particular phosphors in use."
"Over the Past Few Years a number of schemes have been proposed to make greater utilization of broadcast television channels, either by providing supplementary alphanumeric material related to the program transmission, or by “piggy-backing” additional unrelated informational services to the program. By means of a special decoder at the home receiver the supplementary information can be superimposed over the program picture display at the discretion of the viewer."
"The Independent Broadcasting Authority is at present testing a system for information broadcasting using binary-coded data in the vertical interval of the television signal. At the receiver, individual “pages” of information may be selected from the fifty different pages available in the present trial system. The information is then stored and may subsequently be displayed continuously. It is expected that the service would eventually be used for information such as weather forecasts and stock prices. The present system allows for the transmission of simple graphics and further extensions to the facilities are envisaged."
"A system for adding an auxiliary data channel to a standard NTSC television signal has been developed by taking advantage of the fact that for most scenes video voltage levels are very low in 2.5-MHz region. No use is made of the vertical or horizontal blanking intervals. A low-amplitude subcarrier is inserted at an odd multiple of one-half the line-scanning frequency after being biphase-modulated by a specially clocked data stream. The signal is essentially invisible on a standard receiver but when processed by an add-on decoder the original information modulated on the signal may be recovered and displayed on the receiver screen. A 21-kb/s data rate has been obtained with acceptable error rates. Applications of the add-on data communication system include: multilanguage subtitles, subtitles for the deaf, network communications and teaching aids."
"Field trials are being completed of a BBC system which can transmit a “magazine” of 32 “pages” of text for display on a home TV screen. The information is conveyed in digital form using the ASCII 7-bit code. In the 625-line 50-field television system the data signal is inserted on lines 17 and 18 together with the corresponding lines (330 and 331) in the alternate field and the bit rate of 4.5 Mb/s during the transmission of the signal leads to an average bit rate of 23.4 kb/s. The complete magazine is sent in 15.36 s. Special CEEFAX TV receivers or adapters for use will ordinary sets decode the signals and store the data for the page selected by the user: the store is read every field via character-generating circuits which provide the video signals to form the alphanumeric display. Weather forecasts, news items, and subtitles are among the subjects suitable for CEEFAX which could also be adapted to take library reference material, bank statements, etc. from the telephone line or a shelf-full of books from a single video disc. A Technical Study Group is examining this system, a comparable one developed by the Independent Broadcasting Authority, and proposals from British industry, and will recommend characteristics for a single data broadcasting service."
"Lighting conditions in color television outdoor transmissions are taken into consideration. Their greatly varying illumination levels and color temperature, contrast ranges and light quality give rise to considerable difficulties. The relation between camera sensitivity and lighting techniques is discussed. Quality factors which determine the required and necessary exposure level are set forth. The roles of camera sensitivity, signal-to-noise ratio and focus are described. Adjustment to different color temperatures by means of conversion filters, adjustment of camera electronics, and the effect of mixing light sources with different color temperatures are considered. The suitability of diverse types of lamps for outdoor TV broadcasts is explored, with special emphasis on the color rendering of modern metal halide lamps. Experiences with lamps of the type b at the Olympic Games are mentioned. Color Rendering Indexes Ra2, Ra6 and R13/6 were obtained for five specific types of lamps, using the EBU-standardized matrix coefficients. The reproduction of skin colors as well as color reproduction by color film is discussed."
"Temperature radiators are briefly discussed and their fixed spectral distribution for a given operating condition is mentioned. The generation of light in a high-pressure vapor discharge lamp and the relevant physical theory and mechanisms are described, including the effect of the introduction of a metallic element such as lithium. Formulas for the calculation of a lamp's light efficiency and flux as a function of the number of excited particles are given. Halides may be added as emission boosters. The addition of rare earth elements produces closely packed spectral lines. The conditions that metal halide lamps must meet for color television are considered. By introducing Hg, Na, Tl, In and Li into the envelope and adjusting energy ratios between the spectral lines, a 5000-K. daylight booster light can be produced. Some experiences with this lamp, the HQI 1000 C, are described and its technical parameters are given. A specifically adjusted combination of Hg, Tl, Na and Li—plus the halide as emission booster—yields a low-color-temperature lamp, the light of which can readily be mixed with that of 3200-K. incandescent studio lamps. For the blue-screen process special lamps can be designed by using In and Ga. Investigations have demonstrated that the three types of lamps are possible in principle. A unified type of lamp construction, based on the HQI 1000 C model, is used."
"Interinstrument variability can be minimized by adjusting the unfiltered response of the individual densitometers to a standard set of values and fitting the densitometer with carefully matched filters. An analysis of the sensitometric system and compilation of data on the present population of densitometers provides a basis for the specification of standard response functions. With these functions, the design responsibility for the filters and instrument may be separated and better control techniques determined. A standard unfiltered response is proposed, test methods are outlined, and filter curves are specified. Using a technique outlined for trimming individual instruments, the interinstrument variability of a group of commercial densitometers was reduced over 60%."
"After a discussion of the requirements made of a zoom lens for color television, the author briefly deals with basic principles and then introduces a zoom system with a wide focal-length range."
"The Engineering Committee on Color met on 17 October 1973 in New York. — A. D. Bruno, chairman of the Subcommittee to Develop a Recommendation for a Universal Color-Control Negative, reported on the work by this Subcommittee and on the agreement reached by several laboratories to try out the method."
         "This document supersedes IEEE Std 28-1972 (ANSI C62.1-1971) and revises many portions ofthe previous edition. Three new significant design tests have been added to determine:(1) The highest 1.2 x 50 standard impulse which the surge arrester will allow without sparkover(2) The effect of external contamination on sparkover(3) Surge arrester disconnector characteristics. Additional substantive changes include:(1) New definition of prorated section(2) Revision of Table 1 to include a 25 kV distribution surge arrester and special ratings for rotatingmachine protection(3) Increase in maximum rate-of-rise for front-of-wave sparkover test(4) Expanded range of currents in the discharge voltage test(5) Reduced high current test for station surge arresters to 65 kA(6) Expanded Table 4 to include test values for 550 kV and 800 kV system surge arresters(7) General revision of pressure-relief test."
"This guide describes the apparatus and procedures for the determination of resistivity and polarization characteristics of solid and laminar insulation specimens (considered for use in high direct-voltage power cables) at uniform temperatures from room temperature up to the temperature at which the materials will operate."
"This document was prepared to provide the designers and operators of nuclear power plant protection systems and the concerned regulatory groups with the essential methods and procedures of reliability engineering that are applicable to protection systems. By applying principles given, systems may be analyzed, acceptable test intervals may be established, results may be reconciled with reliability objectives, and the analyses may be suitably documented. The quantitative principles are applicable to the analysis of the effects of random failures on protection system reliability. They are not intended for use in treating the problem of systematic or common-mode failure. The principles are applicable during any phase of a protection system's lifetime. They have their greatest value during the design phase. During this phase reliability engineering can have the greatest effect for enhancing safety. The principles may also be applied during the per-operational phase or at any time during the normal lifetime of a system. When the principles are applied during either of these two phases, they will aid in the evaluation of systems and in improving test programs. Although not inherently limited, these principles are intended for application to systems covered in the scope of IEEE Std 279-1971, Criteria for Protection Systems for Nuclear Power Generating Stations, ANSI N42.7-1972."
"This standard establishes definitions, electrical ratings, tests, and interchangeable construction features for load-break and nonload-break separable insulated connectors rated 601 V and above, 600 A or less, for use on power distribution systems."
"This standard covers means of safeguarding personnel while operating equipment located in electrolytic cell line working zones. Included are related requirements for equipment and electrical conductor installations. The general types of DC electrolytic cells covered include, but are not limited to, the cells used in the production of aluminum, cadmium, chlorate, chlorine, copper, fluorine, hydrogen peroxide, magnesium, sodium, and zinc. This standard does not cover: electroplating and anodizing facilities; AC cells or furnaces; electrothermal process furnaces; arc furnaces; melting or heat treating facilities; Any electrical equipment that is neither part of the electrolytic process equipment nor installed or used in the cell line working zone Items referred to in are not covered by this standard and shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 70-1975, National Electrical Code (ANSI C1-1975), or the latest revision thereof."
"This standard describes methods for measuring the linear waveform distortions of TV video signals, that is, distortions which are caused by amplitude-independent (linear) transmission characteristics of television equipment and facilities.1 The primary application of this standard is for routine operational and maintenance tests, where rapid interpretation of test results is desirable. The techniques described here may also be applicable to laboratory measurements, proof-of-performance measurements, and detailed maintenance procedures."
"The purpose of these recommendations is to define and recommend specifications for electric drives and related electrical equipment for installation in the cement industry in order to promote: (1) safety to personnel and equipment (2) maximum reliability with minimum loss of production (3) reduced maintenance and increased life of equipment (4) clarification of needs and conditions to reduce special engineering and chance of error in specification (5) over-all economy."
"Preparation of material incorporated in this report has been undertaken by the AIEE in the belief that it will materially aid in the realization of a better aircraft electric system. This conviction is confirmed by opinions expressed in joint meetings, including representation from SAE, NASC, NEMA, Army Air Forces, and the Bureau of Aeronautics."
"Aircraft Direct-Current Apparatus Voltage Ratings"
"The term askarel generally describes a widely used broad class of nonflammable synthetic halogenated hydrocarbon insulating liquids. In this guide, it applies solely to askarel in transformers, reactors, and accessory equipment operated at power frequencies."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the copyright information for the conference. May include reprint permission information."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: noise immunity; optoelectronics; environmental interference effect; federal spectrum management; electromagnetic compatibility; communication interference analysis; figure of merit; FOM; EMI measurement; interference filtering; interference measurement and interference control."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A problem exists in selecting an appropriate logic family and generating application rules to be used in the design of an electronic sub-system which will operate reliably in noisy electromagnetic environments. A typical subsystem must store, control and sense the status of high voltage relays. It must meet two conflicting requirements: 1) high speed access by a CPU 2) immunity to relay noise We evaluated the relative merits of the HTL, TTL,'PMOS and CMOS technologies for an application with such requirements. HTL and PMOS were rejected primarily because of the insufficient number of available functions, second sourced by different vendors and high power requirements. The TTL family provided both a large number of functions, which simplified logic design, and the high switching speed required by the CPU interface. Because its noise immunity imposed severe wiring restrictions and its high power dissipation penalized the system packaging, TTL proved uneconomical. CMOS provided the best combination of properties. Its low power dissipation and the high number of available second sourced functions permitted high packaging density. Its switching speed was adequate to meet the CPU interface requirements, while its noise immunity was sufficient to withstand relay noise.. However, CMOS has two disadvantages which must be considered: 1) Non-uniform output impedance which causes a) noise immunity variation amongst function types b) some wiring restrictions due to crosstalk c) variation in current drive between function types 2) Switching speed degradation which results from a) output capacitive load (due to both gate input and wiring capacitance) b) input transition time c) power supply voltage variations CMOS will provide reliable and economical system operation in severe electromagnetic noise environments if all its properties are identified and considered during logic implementation and circuit design."
"A ten-channel 15M bit/s optoelectronic data transmission system has been designed, built and tested. The system is configured as a multichannel point-to-point communicator with associated test equipment. The design uses GaAs LEDs, silicon p-i-n photodiodes, and flexible fiber optic bundles. Nine of the channels transmit data and the tenth channel is a dedicated clock line. The use of insulating fiber optic bundles as the data transmission medium in this system eliminates ground loops between transmitter and receiver. Stray signal radiation and EMI susceptibility are also significantly lower than for hard-wire systems. This optoelectronic data transmission system is constructed entirely of commercially available components. Even so, the data rate is 10-15 times greater than for shielded twisted pair systems of similar length. Future systems will be capable of 100-150M bit/s operation. Fiber optic cable lengths of 50ft, 125ft and 175ft are used with the system. The cables terminate in connectors that engage mating receptacles on the transmitter and receiver. This pluggable optical interface allows easy substitution of the interchangeable fiber optic cables. It demonstrates optical interconiect techniques that will be useful in other systems. The data rate on each of the ten channels is 15M bit/s. Electrical input and output is NRZ (nonreturn-to-zero); Manchester (bi-phase) code is used for the optical signals. For the 175ft fiber optic cable, the total optical attenuation is 42dB. This includes end coupling losses at the LED (7.3dB) and photodiode(1.7dB). The calculated bit error rate based on the measured equivalent input noise of the receiver is one error in 3 x 1045 bits. No data errors were observed in testing. When the total optical attenuation is increased to 46.5dB, bit error rates of the order of one error in 108 bits are observed."
"A prototype, quad redundant, fly-by-wire flight control system developed for the USAF Flight Dynamics Laboratory in 1967 was modified to incorporate a fiberoptic data transmission link in one of the four channels. This paper describes the system configuration and summarizes the test results which confirmed that the practical application of fiber optic data transmission to fly-by-wire or other avionics requirements was compatible with the 1973 device and system state of the art. The objective of this work was to demonstrate unique survivability and noise immunity characteristics of fiber optic data transmission in the flight control application. All data flowing between one of the elevator actuator channels and its control computer was transmitted on multiplexed optical data busses in serial-bit, serial-word format at a 500 KHz bit rate. The channel capacity was several hundred times greater than the maximum requirement anticipated for a fly-by-wire application. The system was mechanized with a 100-foot, fiber-optic cable and miniature optical transmitter and receiver modules, having a total bandwidth capability of about 4.0 MHz. System performance was verified, and the compatibility of the optical channel and the other three electrical channels was demonstrated. Various fiber-optic cable jacketing configurations were evaluated, and detailed environmental tests were performed on one type of jacketed cable. Immunity of optical data transmission to electrical noise was qualitatively demonstrated. The major problem area encounted was excessive fiber breakage associated with the extrusion of the fiber through the jacketing material, but improved extrusion techniques can solve this problem."
"Optical communications - that is the transmission of information by means of light has been a subject of interest for a long time. The advantages of optical communication include large bandwidth, freedom from electromagnetic interference, elimination of grounding problems and increased security. Also the weight, size, cost and power savings will make optical transmission systems useful in avionics and shipboard applications. In the paper, properties of multimofe dielectric waveguide as a transmission media for optical communications are discussed. The discrete components available to design and fabricate an optical transmission system are also described."
"The paper focuses on the increase in electromagnetic pollution due to the increase of EMI creating devices from simple household appliances to more complex wired cities and satellite telecommunications. The authors concluded that a new and revised radiation standard is expected in the future to meet the present and future technology development. The author also reiterated that proper equipment and system design, planning, and compatibility engineering can accomplish a lot to prevent an increase in this spectrum pollution and careful and enlightened frequency management can substantially contribute to a lessening of this pollution."
"Amplitude-probability-distribution (APD) data are presented for ignition emanations from V-8 engines of used motor vehicles. Outputs from both single and multiple engines running at 1500 rpm were measured with an Omni-directional antenna over the frequency range from approximately 20 MHz to 1 GHz. In each case, the antenna was oriented similarly with respect to the vehicle(s)-vertical, height 3 m, distance 10m."
"A new method of analysing radio noise data and thus understanding diurnal variation of thunderstorm activity has been described, Results of such method applied to about 40 thunderstorms, observed at Bangalore (12°58' N, 77°35' E) during the years 1964-66, are presented. Some \"anomalies\" and questions raised in literature are answered."
"Data on transient-voltage environment are needed for the specification and design of reliable transit-system electrical equipment, especially those containing semiconductor devices. Such data taken on the 600-volt dc propulsion systems of the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) and the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) are presented. Transient-voltage counters, supplemented by an automatic cathode ray oscilloscope, were used to monitor transient voltages in substations, wayside switching stations and transit cars. The 37.5-volt dc battery line was also monitored on board one transit car on the LIRR system. This program spanned a period of two and a half years. Theoretical analysis on the characteristics of transients caused by lightning and switching is also presented."
"Electronic equipments can malfunction in the presence of high electromagnetic ambients such as near airport or weather radars or on upper floors of buildings near FM/TV antennas located on other nearby building roofs. Steel-reinforced concrete commercial office buildings offer natural shielding even in offices with large windows located around the periphery. Typical attenuation at A-M broadcast frequencies is 50 dB. At FM/VHF TV and lower UHF frequencies, the attenuation is about 4 dB and 8 dB respectively. When the product location is in the center of a floor of a building having approximately 25,000 sq ft, rather than at the periphery, this shielding may approximate 60 dB at A-M, 15 dB at FM/TV, and 30 dB at lower UHF frequencies. Thus, certain equipments, such as computers should be located in the core of a building if natural shielding protection is desired. Hostile electromagnetic ambients to susceptible equipments may exist in many locations. For example, field strengths up to 30 V/m at AM, FM, and VHF TV broadcast may exist within 100m of transmitter antennas. Airport or weather radars may develop field strengths up to 200 V/m at distances out to 1 km. These values correspond to levels in the open. However, for equipments intended to be operated indoors, the field strength becomes substantially less. Most equipments which may fall in the open can perform when located inside steel reinforced (girder construction) buildings, even though concrete and, glass are nearly transparent to radio frequencies. Based on NBS and Bell Lab reports and measurements performed by the authors, mathematical models of attenuation offered by steel-reinforced buildings are presented. Substantial attenuation in the A-M broadcast band is almost entirely due to the steel girders located a few hundredths of a wavelength on center. At FM and VHF TV frequencies, where the girder separation is of the order of a wavelength, attenuation is insignificant. At UHF and SHF frequencies appreciable attenuation exists from scattering and absorption. The attenuation is always greater in the center core of the building; the associated standard deviation is also greater. Based on the buildings attenuation and field strengths mentioned above, the mean attenuation effect of typical office buildings just inside the outer wall suggests that A-M broadcast signals are below 0.2 V/m. FM and TV emissions may reach levels of about 20 V/m and radar emissions may approximate 100 V/m. On the other hand, in the central office core of such buildings, all field strengths are below 10 V/m, where relatively few radiated susceptibility failures would result."
"The control of unwanted coupling between potentially incompatible signals within a facility depends upon the correct design of the grounding system for that facility. The four basic noise minimization techniques associated with signal grounding that may be used to reduce unwanted coupling are described in this paper. Each technique offers certain advantages and disadvantages. However, none of the techniques individually will entirely eliminate coupling between signal circuits in most facilities. Therefore, an optimum approach to grounding would require that the best features of each of the basic techniques be used. A grounding philosophy incorporating the best features of several basic techniques in a manner appropriate for complex electronic facilities is proposed. Specifically, single-point grounding for low frequency equipments and multiplepoint grounding for high frequency equipments are recommended. Interfaces between the low frequency elements and between low frequency and high frequency elements employ the common mode rejection features of balanced lines to avoid compromising the single point portion of the grounding system."
"Power density measurements at X-band microwave frequencies were carried out in an anechoic chamber with and without the presence of biological specimens (animals and plant vegetation). Dramatic differences in the radiation patterns were observed. The difference is ascribed to the large disturbance introduced by the biological systems on the imposed electromagnetic fields."
"Since about 1965 numerous discussions of pacemaker EMI problems have appeared in the literature. An extensive study in vitro of the effects of electromagnetic fields upon pacemaker performance has been conducted by the Society of Automotive Engineers. They reported that pacemakers were affected by VHF field intensities in the range of one to five volts per meter. A study of the effects of pulsed radio frequency fields upon the performance of pacemakers implanted in dogs has been made by the Air Force. They found that one type of implanted pacemaker could be stopped by a UHF field intensity of three to five volts per meter. Very little data on the effects of FM and TV signals has appeared in the literature. In order to predict the possible effects of the New Sutro Tower upon pacemaker performance at the University of California San Francisco, we conducted in vitro pacemaker tests near the FM and TV transmitter sites on San Bruno mountain. We found that one type of external pacemaker stopped in an area where the maximum average field intensity was 0.63 volt per meter. The other pacemakers functioned normally in an area where the highest measured average field intensity was one volt per meter. Most of them functioned erratically or even stopped under certain conditions in an area where the highest measured average field intensity was 2.8 volts per meter. Some of the test conditions (such as the substitution of a dipole antenna for the catheter) were more severe than would be encountered during normal operation. Our Office of Environmental Health and Safety has established a tentative standard which requires that the field intensity within this hospital must not exceed either 1 volt per meter average or 1.5 volt per meter peak."
"Isolated frog hearts were irradiated with pulse modulated microwave energy synchronized with the ECG. No statistically significant differences were found between the heart rate of irradiated groups and the nonirradiated control group."
"The Radio Spectrum represents a unique and vital national resource. This resource, unlike other resources, can be reused but, like other resources, should not be wasted. The Federal Government is a major user of the radio spectrum. This use results from various missions and programs approved by the President consistent with Congressional legislative and funding support and includes, among other things, the defense of the nation, safety of life and property, and management of resources. The Federal Government has exclusive use of about 25% of the spectrum and shares some 45% of the spectrum with non-government users. The responsibility for management of the Government's use of the Spectrum is assigned to the Office of Telecommunications Policy, OTP. OTP is directly supported by the Office of Telecommunications, Department of Commerce and assisted by the Interdepartrent Radio Advisory Committee, IRAC, representing 16 major Government agency users of the spectrum, plus a liaison representative from the Federal Communications Commission."
"One of the functions of spectrum management is the area of spectrum planning. By planning I mean the development and implementation of the means by which future spectrum needs are determined and fulfilled. Radio frequencies are international in character. Transmissions made in one country can effect operations conducted in other countries. For this reason national spectrum planning is accomplished in consort with other countries of the world. The basic world organization charged with this function is the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). The ITU, which consists of over 140 member nations, meets periodically to consider and develop plans and procedures for fulfilling the world's needs for spectrum, in sessions called World Administrative Radio Conferences. One of the activities of these conferences is to revise the basic plan for spectrum use. This world spectrum plan is known as the International Table of Frequency Allocations."
"Telecommunications may be defined as that combination of techniques and their implementation which effects the transfer of information from one point to another. The expansion of new telecommunications services is widely forecast, based upon evidence of technical and economic feasibility and growing realization of associated benefits. Among the factors which will limit the needed development and growth of telecommunications services is availability of the spectrum resource. Effective management of the spectrum resource within the Federal Government is presently the responsibility of the Office of Telecommunication Policy (OTP), Executive Office of the President."
"This paper discusses the signal-to-noise (S/N) and co-channel signal-to-interference (S/I) criteria required for acceptable levels of performance in Frequency Modulation (FM) and digital Phase Modulation (PM) receivers. Acceptable levels of performance are examined for different types of interference and different interference or degradation criteria."
"The paper presents the practices being under taken by the US Government to improve the spectrum management at the national and international level. The paper reviews the the program of the new government radiocommunications systems to determine the availability of suitable frequencies and to assess the electromagnetic compatibility of new systems with others in the planned operational environment. A brief history of background events, an outline of the structure of the program, and some examples of the findings of the review process that may be of general interest were presented."
"A transportable automated radio spectrum measurement system is now being employed by the OTP/OT as a part of the program to improve spectrum management processes and procedures within the Federal Government. Measurements to determine actual spectrum usage as compared with assignments, and operational compliance with assignment limitations, are primary output requirements. This paper describes current system applications to meet these requirements as well as field operational experiences during initial deployment in the Washington, D.C. area. In addition, measurement results are given illustrating their direct use in the Federal spectrum management program."
"The Army for some time has considered the feasibility of transmitting digital information over tactical narrowband FM. This paper presents the results of bit error rate measurements made on narrowband FM links being interfered with by a variety of modulation types. The desired signal is a frequency shift keying signal of 1200 and 2400 Hertz with bit rates of 600 and 1200 bits per second. This signal is transmitted over a 25 kHz FM channel. The interfering signals will be: a. Gaussian noise b. ASK 1200 and 2400 Hertz tones at 600 bits per second c. ASK 1200 and 2400 Hertz tones at 1200 bits per second d. ASK 750 and 1500 Hertz tones at 750 bits per second e. Narrowband voice f. AM noise."
"At tropical latitudes atmospheric radio noise (ARN). is the principal source of interference to radio communications in the HF band. Determination of an optimal receiver or detector or design of signal depends upon application of a mathematically tractable model of noise. A new model of ARN is developed here as the product of a narrowband gaussian noise and the reciprocal of a nongaussian random process. This model leads to observed probability distributions of ARN and also results in finite power, thus qualifying to represent a physical process. The new ARN model is applied to derive probability distribution of envelope and phase of an FSK signal in the presence of ARN,. which is used to evaluate the system performance. The probabilities of errors for. NCFSK receivers with nonlinear processing, viz., clipping and square-law noise blanking have also been determined and compared with that of a binary phase-coherent receiver. The FSK receiver with square-law noise-blanking is shown to have significant advantage over clipping. These results can be used for optimization of receivers for ARN, where the error probability is to be minimized."
"Four-wire Multi-Grounded-Neutral (MGN) distribution systems are not unique but, in fact, represent the bulk of power distribution circuits in the U.S. Such circuits have been operating for years and since 1966 at least twenty MGN locations have been established in California similar to the one described below. The unusual feature about the characteristic of the circuit mentioned in this paper was the high amplitude of odd-order harmonics present which induced noise-interference into nearby telephone cables. In spite of the fact that all normal harmonic-producing situations were checked, i.e., overexcited distribution transformers, standard construction methods, and balanced load on the phasors, the noise persisted for several years. The influence of a power circuit depends on the Telephone Influence Factor (TIF) and the magnitude of both the balanced and residual (or ground return) currents and voltages. In this case, the ground return IT (current TIF) was controlling and, due to construction methods used in higher voltage joint use with MGN systems, the telephone plant was actually supplementing the current-carrying neutral conductor. However, no single item, construction detail, or piece of equipment was found that produced the high TIF on this MGN system. This paper describes our efforts in identifying and mitigating the noise on our telephone plant."
"The 11.4KV three-phase, four-wire, common-neutral multigrounded power distribution systems extensively adopted by Taiwan Power Company now introduces some new inductive interference on the telecommunication circuits due to the electrostatic and electromagnetic couplings, which we have never encountered before. The interference due to electrostatic coupling may be eliminated by earthing the metal sheath of communication cable. However, the interference due to the electromagnetic coupling can hardly be avoided. These power distribution systems may introduce interference on the communication circuits not only at fault condition but also at normal working state. At normal working state, the noise voltages and the longitudinal voltages induced on the telecommunication circuits will reduce the communication quality and make the telephone switching equipment misoperating. In worst condition, the dangerous voltages will appear on the telecommunication circuits and will destroy the communication equipment, or even human life. This paper presents the interim report on the study of inductive interference problems from the 11.4KV three-phase, four-wire, common-neutral multigrounded power distribution systems. It includes (I) Introduction, (II) General description of 11.4KV three-phase, four-wire, common-neutral power distribution systems, (III) Effects of such power distribution systems on the telecommunication circuits, (IV) Prediction formulae for computation of each kind of electromagnetically induced voltages, (V) Preliminary results of the study on the interference problems, (VI) Counter measures against inductive interference, (VII) Conclusion and Annex."
"There have been very few investigations of atmospheric noise above 30 1Hz. It is however known on local thunderstorm days, the atmospheric noise intensity can be quite high at these frequencies. This can be a significant source of interference to communications systems aiming at a high grade of service (very small error rates) and high reliability (satisfactory transmission in very high percentage offtransmission hours - 99% and above). This fact needs to be taken into account in planning communication links in tropical and semi-tropical regions where thunderstorms occur frequently. However, the existing information is not available in a form in which it can be directly utilized for system planning. This problem is examined in this paper and recommendations are made regarding the manner in which data should be collected and furnished. The problem of extrapolation of the existing data at lower frequencies is also discussed. It is suggested that data regarding percentage occupation time above different threshold levels in a noise burst together with burst rate information should be furnished. For long term data, the present unit of season time block appears to be appropriate on the considerations of local thunderstorm activity. In many locations the median or the upper decile values of noise levels in a season time block may not be due to atmospheric noise. However, while considering the noise exceeded 1% of the time and the like, atmospheric noise from local storms will be significant. The data therefore need to be furnished for these percentages specifically."
"This paper describes the EMC program implemented for the AIRTRANS ground transportation system installed at the Dallas-Fort Worth Regional Airport. A review of the EMI techniques applied at the equipment level for the automatic control, propulsion control and surveillance system is provided. A presentation is made concerning derivation of the limits for radiated and conducted emissions from the vehicles, limits which can be reasonably applied to commercial systems yet provide the necessary control to insure: · The system is operationally compatible and free from mutual interference ·The system will operate without interference to adjacent aeronautical, safety and special, and broadcast radio services. Measurement data are provided showing the radiated and conducted emission characteristics of a vehicle operating on-site. These measurements, compared against the limits established for the system, show that the required conditions of electromagnetic compatibility have been achieved."
"The Applications Technology Satellite-F Spacecraft to be launched in 1974 contains a number of explicit communications functions and related experiment packages involving radiation and reception of frequencies spread over 10 octaves of the RF spectrum. Its configuration was developed directly from program requirements, but numerous special design features were incorporated to enable the various subsystems and components to operate compatibly with one another. Such factors as spacecraft weight limitations, thermal control considerations, and the need to prevent single point failures in critical circuits led to the development and use of these special features. The spacecraft's configuration is one in which a large portion of the subsystems and components are, mounted in a box-like structure at the prime focus of a 30-ft. diameter parabolic reflector. The box-like assemblage is called the earth-viewing module (EVM). In addition, numerous power, signal and sensor cables interconnect the earth-viewing module with space-viewing components mounted above the parabola. Because the Spacecraft's output reaches 180 kw EIRP, its configuration results in formidable EMC challenges."
"The F-15 aircraft has successfully completed more than 2000 flight hours with no significant electromagnetic compatibility problems. Of the four problems discovered, two resulted from wires which required shields and two resulted from subsystems which had yet to be qualified. This is a noteworthy achievement with an avionics system comprising 50,000 wires, totaling 20 miles in length which interconnect a full complement of fire control, armament, communication, navigation, control/ display and central computer hardware. This paper describes the salient features of the EMC program which resulted in a compatible weapon system and, thereby, made the program unique."
"This paper presents the methodology and results of a computer aided Antenna-to-Antenna Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis of the Advanced Airborne Command Post1 (AABNCP). The AABNCP, designated the E-4A, is the first Boeing 747 aircraft to be used by the Air Force. in its role as a command and control element, the airborne command post aircraft presents a complex problem in EMC analysis because of the large number and variety of mission-oriented and flight-oriented electromagnetic systems on board which span the spectrum from VLF to UHF. The antenna radiated electromagnetic environment generated by high power VLF, HF, and UHF equipment must be simultaneously compatible with a full complement of flight avionics."
"This paper reviews and discusses various degradation measures which are needed for developing mathematical models for predicting radio frequency interference and its effects on the performance of a communication system. In analog communication systems where fidelity is the objective, a mean-square error is a good degradation measure. The statistical parameters required for its evaluation are the power spectral densities and the cross-correlation functions of the transmitted and received signals. In digital communication systems where reliability rather than fidelity is important, a good degradation measure is the probability of error. The statistical information needed for this case are the a priori probabilities of message and the conditional amplitude distribution of the detector output."
"The present paper discusses the problem of the assessment of radio receiver immunity to the interference due to emissions occurring outside the bandwidth employed for the reception of a wanted signal. It is found that with the emergence of new technologies in the domain of radio receiver design and as a result of the increasing application of the electromagnetic spectrum, the problem in question has now become particularly conspicuous. The paper describes a method proposed for testing such an immunity with the aid of an impulse signal of a continuous frequency spectrum shaped by means of appropriate filters. Measurements are illustrated by examples."
"Wide band digital signal processing systems are becoming increasily important due to the advance of high speed digital Fourier analyzers. This paper presents a new threshold scheme that adaptively reduces noise effect in a data processing system that receives signals corrupted by non-stationary colored noise. The corrupted signal is decomposed into spectral segments by a discrete Fourier transform (DFT) unit and the resulting spectrum is processed by an adaptive threshold unit. The adaptive threshold network is tasked to estimate the noise level and to subtract this noise estimate from the composite signal plus noise to arrive at a high quality signal. For each set of DFT outputs, a finite order polynomial is used to approximate the average noise level by least squares method. The key feature in this polynomial approach is the reduction of the number of parameters characterizing the threshold. The results of this work show that second order can be sufficient, hence comparing to actual number of spectral values (generally greater than 512), the polynomial approach represents a large reduction in computation time and hardware circuit elements. The adaptive algorithm used in this work to estimate the -parameters sequentially is derived from adaptive estimation theory, which has been successfully implemented in a digital signal processing system."
"Pontryagin's maximum principle has been widely used in solving the extremization of certain class of control systems and communication theories such as the design of maximum amplitude modulation of radar signals and the design of optimal input signals. In this paper, we consider the implementation of functional operations for the design of optimal signals in certain communication systems. The extremization of the communication systems such as the minimization of the adjacent channel interference; the maximization of signal to noise etc. is expressed in terms of linear and/or quadratic functionals subject to certain kind of constraints. Applying the principle of ordinary calculus of variation techniques, the necessary conditions for the extremization of a functional subject to certain constraints just happen to find the stationary points of a new unconstrained functional where we have introducèd the Lagrange multipliers. Some frequently encountered communication problems such as to find a signal which has a minimum Gabor bandwidth in a burst-noise environment, to find an orthogonal signal set which has minimum Gabor bandwidth in a burst-noise environment, to find an orthogonal signal set which has minimum Gabor bandwidth and to find a duration-limited input signal which maximizes the output of a time-invariant linear filter with impulse response h(t) etc. have been exploited to illustrate the procedures for the formulation of required functionals and the methods for processing the extremizations are fully described."
"Military deployment of tropospheric radio communications equipments frequently requires close cositing; ositing; i.e., colocation of several equipments in close proximity to each other. There will, of course, be potential electromagnetic compatibility problems attendant to such clusterings. In order to facilitate the practical management of such cosite implementation, a systems design planning guide was developed to permit trade-off evaluations of possible colocation configurations. There are essentially three factors which must be considered for multiple equipment sitings: (1) The disposition of antenna field patterns relative to one another, (2) the effects of the ground upon antenna-to-antenna coupling, and (3) the effects of multiple reflections which require detailed knowledge of the physical environmental conditions extant. For convenience, these factors were ignored in the compilation of the system design planning guide. In order to compensate for these assumptions, the tradeoff tolerance criteria were made more stringent than would have been considered otherwise. Several varieties of antennas were examined; radiation zone data provided, by standard specifications for these antennas were employed to synthesize mathematically appropriate aperture source illumination distributions. From these distributions, field patterns were calculated as a function of distance from the antenna and with respect to angular position. All antennas were of the high directivity, microwave variety, and induction fields were negligible within the range of an antenna diameter. Antenna coupling was determined in accordance with the reciprocity theorem; i.e., essentially as the product of antenna directional gains. The gains ranged from the far radiation zone patterns (Fraunhofer Region) to the near zone patterns (Fresnel Region). A set of electromagnetic isolation versus antenna separation curves were developed at various antenna aspect angles for rapid trade-off combination selectivity."
"The IEEE Electromagnetic Compatibility Professional Group and the Department of Defense Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis Center (ECAC) have jointly sponsored an ad hoc committee whose task is to devise a practical procedure for developing an EMC Figure of Merit (FOM). This paper is a summary of current committee findings. The procedure will enable quantification of EMC characteristics of transmitting and receiving equipments. This capability would provide system planners as well as design engineers and management with a tool for making objective, consistent decisions. Given the equipment FOM, methods could also be developed to calculate FOM measures for electronic systems using these equipments. Single channel voice communications equipments have been considered. An interim report has been issued. A final report is to be issued in early 1975. The committee would appreciate constructive criticisms in regard to the concept and suggestions as to what action should be taken to secure its adoption."
"Preliminary considerations for a system EMC figure of merit (SFOM) tentatively indicate that it should have a separate value for each of several commonly encountered EM environments; values for other environments may either be estimated or calculated by formula. Three possible bases for evaluation are presented: EMC performance, communication channels denied, operational area denied. Until some choice is made, all three should be used and relationships developed among them. A possible approach using EMC performance -is given."
"A direct approach and a building-block approach for developing a system electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) figure of merit (FOM) are discussed. Each approach is based upon the channel denial concept, and a co-site environment is assumed. The direct approach requires the use of a computer program whereas the building-block approach permits the use of rather simple scoring formulas for selected EMC parameters with weighting functions for each parameter. Some of the problems basic system consisting are discussed, and some in deriving an EMC-FOM for a of a transmitter-receiver pair of the problems in extending the EMC-FOM to more complex systems are mentioned."
"The REO1 and (T)RE04 tests for magnetic field emissions in Mil-Suds-461A and 462 are generally assumed to be equivalent. Thus, either one or the other is selected when magnetic field testing is called for on equipment. However, a careful review of Mil-Stds461A and 462 will show that there is no paragraph actually making such a statement of equivalence. Although both tests measure magnetic field emissions, that is where the similarity ends. The results of measured and computed data show clearly that the limits of the (T)RE04 test are significantly easier to meet. A tabulation of test results are given at each frequency in Table II. This can be translated into terms of the thickness of cold rolled steel required to shield the cable. For example, to meet the (T)RE04 limit at 1200 Hz requires .015 inch thick material while .073 inches were required to meet the REO1 limit."
"A radio spectrum measurement system consisting of a scanning receiver, a real-time 3-axis graphic display and auxiliary equipment was installed in a van. The van was parked near surface tracks of a modern rapid transit system, and radio noise emanating from the transit system commuter cars was observed. Strong impulsive noise associated with the propulsion system of the cars was found in the 0.5 to 8.5 MHz portion of the radio spectrum. Spectrum signatures of the noise in a 3-axis frequency-amplitude-time format were obtained which show band-limiting of the noise energy and spectral changes as trains pass the monitoring site."
"The EMI limits and test procedures for digital data processing equipment are discussed as they pertain to the commercial, real-world environment. These specific limit levels and test methods define the vigorous certification program that computers should pass to insure reliable operation and to meet the International EMI Regulations."
"Receivers operating on a space vehicle or an aircraft having many on-board transmitters are subject to intermodulation interference from mixing in the transmitting antenna systems, the external environment, or the receiver frontends. This paper presents the techniques utilized in RFI Math Model computer programs that were developed to aid in the prevention of interference by predicting problem areas prior to occurrence. Frequencies and amplitudes of possible intermodulation products generated in the external environment are calculated and compared to receiver sensitivities. Intermodulation products generated in receivers are evaluated, to determine the adequacy of preselector rejection."
"A technique for estimating the main-beam to mainbeam mutual coupling between misaligned-near-field antennas is presented, and predicted and. measured data are compared. The technique is based on calculated main-beam near-field patterns as a function of range for individual antennas. Curves that display the gain reduction along the boresight direction as well as the gain reduction for angles off boresight have been calculated for various types of illumination functions for circular and rectangular apertures. To account for beam distortions caused by asymmetrical illumination due to antennas being misaligned as well as being in very close proximity to each other, experimental data were utilized to improve the prediction technique."
"The sensitivities of multiconductor cable responses to uncertainties in wire position, line length and termination impedances are investigated by computing the response of a 13 conductor cable via the solution of the distributed parameter, transmission line formulation. It is found that the sensitivities to these parameter variations can be extraordinarily large for \"high impedance terminations\". The effect of parasitic wires in the bundle on the coupling between two wires is found also to be quite large for \"high impedance loads\" and relatively small for \"low impedance loads\"."
"In areas of high electromagnetic fields, critical electronic equipment must be shielded to minimize the interference and destructive effects of these fields. For many systems, one of the more critical shielding elements is the conduit network carrying the interconnecting cables of the system. These conduit systems can form excellent receptors for electromagnetic fields and induced ground currents and thus, it is important to be able to predict what signals will be induced on the protected cables inside the conduit, in an arbitrary electromagnetic field. Since the external threat field can take various forms including radar, NEMP, and lightening pulses, all of varying frequency content, it is impossible to test for all possible input conditions. Therefore, a general solution is determined by calculating the time response of the conduit protected cable to an impulse of electromagnetic energy. This response can then be convoluted with any given input to obtain the actual voltages on the protected cable. It is shown that the impulse response function for a conduit of a specified size and material can be uniquely defined by two conduit parameters which depend on the size and material properties of the conduit. It is further shown that these two parameters can be easily determined experimentally. This is extremely important since material properties for standard conduits are not readily available. Finally, it is shown that once the parameters for one size conduit of a given material are known, the parameters for any other size conduit of the same material can be found by simply knowing the physical dimensions of the new conduit size. The conduit parameters for standard aluminum and galvanized steel 1\" and 2\" diameter rigid wall conduits were experimentally determined. The calculated impulse responses for these conduits were verified experimentally, with excellent agreement being obtained between theory and experiment. The accuracy of the theoretical impulse reponse is further demonstrated by predicting the cable response for a damped sinusoid driving current and obtaining excellent agreement with the actual measured response."
"Modern electronic equipments typically encompass a variety of circuits including both digital and analog. The minimization of resultant cross talk is of primary concern to the EMC engineer. Numerous investigators have reported on prediction methods for wire-to-wire coupling, however, they have generally been directed toward assuring circuit operational capability and are based on uniform coupled lengths."
"The calculation of the attenuation of ac magnetic fields by sheaths, based on Maxwell's field theory, frequently neglects determining factors attributable to the mechanical construction of the shield. The electrical contact resistances between individual shield surfaces haveahighly significant bearing on the effect of the shields, and in many instances they alone are responsible for the shielding effect actually attained. The properties of the materials and the thickness of the walls of the shield then have no effect. However, the majority of theoretical shield calculations are based on these parameters. For this reason the shield attenuation values actually attained in practice are often much lower than those predicted. The physical behavior of these shields in ac magnetic fields can be understood relatively easily with the aid of equivalent circuit diagrams. The consideration of the compensating effect due to the electric currents induced in the shield forms a basis for this purpose. The equivalent circuit diagrams consist of four-terminal networks containing inductance and pure resistance. Contact resistances, the impedance of contact bands, skin effect in the shield and multilayer shields can be taken into account through the choice of appropriate network parameters. A sufficiently close approximation to the shield attenuation for practical purposes is then obtained from the calculation of the voltage division in the four-terminal network. Thus we can also estimate, for example, the shield attenuation values of single-layer and multi-layer wire mesh shields or of constructions with single-layer and multi-layer reinforcing steel. The latter can be of particular importance for EMP protection."
"Filter connectors have been available since the mid-1960's but have only recently come \"of age\". Increased concern (and product sensitivity) over EMI/RFI in medical electronics, rapid transit, commercial aircraft and military applications has resulted in broad product-line availability from several manufacturers. Most filter connectors intermate and intermount with their standard equivalents. Without altering the normal function of a standard connector contact, the filter contact provides attenuation at frequencies above a prescribed point (low pass). Through the use of special ceramic and ferrite compounds, shaped, plated and located appropriately, a network approximating a Pi-section low-pass filter is achieved on any or all contacts on a standard connector. \"L\" and multilayer capacitive \"C\" filters are also in use."
"The use of a spectrum analyzer becomes more and more interesting in radio-interference measurements because it gives direct view of the interference level on the whole frequency range considered and thus it is time saving. Unfortunately the spectrum analyzers have peak detectors and are calibrated in terms of r.m.s. value of a sinusoidal waveform. This characteristic limits their use to measure correctly sinusoidal interference only (also called \"narrow-band\" interference)."
"Summary form only given. Insertion loss is derived in terms of generator impedance, load impedance and filter open-circuit and short-circuit impedances. This expression contains a difference term which places great weight on the accuracy with which filter's impedance are measured. It is shown that the use of this difference term can be avoided by introducing the filter's insertion loss in a circuit with known generator and load impedances. The resulting exact expression contains terms which are easily measurable with sufficient accuracy to provide reliable insertion loss values for the filter for any combination of generator and load impedances. Also shown is a simplified approximate expression for insertion loss which is applicable to a filter's attenuation band. A discussion of experimental verification of the expressions is followed by curves showing application of the approximate insertion loss expression to a particular filter."
"The present method fo1 making conducted interference measurements as specified by Mil-Std-461A requires sampling of the interference current conducted on power lines between the unit under test and a 10 μF capacitor placed in the line at a distance of 1 meter from the unit. The presence of this capacitor during the test generally restricts unit power line electromagnetic interference filters to those with inductive inputs, since any realizable filter capacitor would be useless in parallel with the 10 μF test capacitor. The usual approach is to use an 'L' type filter with the inductor facing the power source."
"The problem of designing power line filters to meet the requirements of conducted interference and susceptibility tests is studied. This is achieved by calculating the minimum suppressor insertion loss in the load configurations defined by EMC specifications. It is shown how the test conditions should determine the selection of the most suitable filter to prevent EMI problems."
"A totally automated transient detection and data reduction capability has been developed. The principal element in this data collection system is a Transient Analyzer which operates with analog-digital techniques. Combining this analyzer with a computer and software program enables 44 parameters to be monitored/reviewed in real time at a sample rate of 22 times per second. This detection system thus introduces a simple, yet effective, means of assisting the EMC engineer in correlating inadvertent circuit transients with system operational events."
 "Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Dielectric depolarization and thermostimulated current measurement techniques have been developed basically for studying permanent polarization and charge carrier trapping processes in solids, especially in connection with the electret state.1 Only a few attempts have been made so far to apply this method for studying multiple transitions in solid polymers.2 The problem is usually approached by considering charge carriers and dipoles in a rigid polymeric or simple crystalline matrix without assuming any chemical interactions; although charge carriers, electrons, and holes, are known to be chemically reactive.3"
"When a thin oxide (30 Å) is sandwiched between two metal electrodes to form a junction and a small dc bias is applied, a current due to tunneling electrons is observed. Electrons near the Fermi level in one metal tunnel through the oxide potential barrier into empty states above the Fermi level in the second metal. For voltages small compared to the barrier height, this tunneling is essentially elastic and the current varies nearly linearly with the voltage.1 More careful examination of the I-V curve by means of the function d2I/dV2 shows that additional channels for tunneling, which parallel the elastic current, become available at certain characteristic voltages. These inelastic electron tunneling (IET) channels produce increases in the conductance dI/dV of the order of 1%. The onset of each new channel occurs when the tunneling electron has sufficient energy to cause excitation of a molecular vibrational mode at the interface or within the metal oxide and still emerge above the Fermi level in the second metal. These characteristic voltages V correspond to the vibrational frequencies ν of molecules contained in the junction, i.e., eV = hν."
"This paper presents the gassing behavior of phenyl methyl silicone fluids and a molecular structural interpretation thereof based on atomic and molecular spectroscopy."
"One can obtain information about the interactions of thermal electrons with materials by measuring the mobilities of electrons in the materials. One injects electrons into a material and measures their drift velocity in an applied electric field. The mobility u is equal to the drift velocity w divided by the applied field strength E."
"The investigation of the electronic properties of disordered materials has attracted much interest in recent years. Whereas the electron transport in solid amorphous materials and liquefied rare gases has been studied experimentally and theoretically to a large extent,1–3 information on the motion of excess electrons in liquid hydrocarbons is still rather limited. Although several groups have published mobility data for various liquids4–13 and some theoretical models have been put forward,14–17 the detailed description of electron transport in liquid hydrocarbons is still rudimentary."
"The attainment of low threshold voltage (VT) for Metal-Oxide-Silicon-Field-Effect-Transistor (MOSFET) devices is being at-temped via four technologies; viz., silicon crystal orientation, composite gate dielectric, silicon gate, and ion implantation. To understand the effect of process variations on VT of a MOS structure, one should review the following equation: VT = Φms + ΦB − (Qox +QB)/Cox. (1) The threshold voltage (VT) is essentially the gate voltage re­quired to bring about a strong inversion in MOS structure. The metal-silicon work function (Φms) is a function of gate electrode material (most commonly it is either aluminum or silicon) and to a slight degree, a function of the substrate doping level. For aluminum-silicon (ND ≈ 1015 cm−3) electrode system, Φms is around −0. 3 V. If Al electrode is replaced by p-type silicon gate, the Φms changes to +0.8 V.1 Thus, by changing the electrode system to silicon-silicon, a reduction of +1.1 V in VT could be observed."
"The knowledge of the electric strength of solid synthetic polymers is rather incomplete to date. More detailed information on breakdown mechanism might contribute to a better use of these solid insulants in a single-material system. The present contribution attempts to show the relation between the morphological superstructure formed in a partially crystalline polymer and the electric breakdown mechanism in a highly inhomogeneous 50 Hz alternating field. More particularly, the electrical breakdown as a function of time suggested to us an interface defect present in the material. Test specimens of polyethylene insulants newly extruded under different working conditions produced different results in our time-graded breakdown tests. Samples with only partial breakdown show the same discharge channels in a form dependent on the manufacturing conditions. Combining these observations with the fact that partially crystallized polymers form superstructures while crystallizing upon cooling, it is suggested that, besides the well-known influences of mechanical stress and of voids, areas of different resistance to electric stress have formed in these morphological structures."
"There have been many reports in recent years of the premature failure of extruded polyethylene insulated cables. In seeking reasons for this it has become apparent that polyethylene under electrical stress will absorb water when in contact with it. Many accounts have been given of the deleterious effect of water on the electrical properties of the insulation, but little has been established about the mechanism of water ingress. However, it is believed1 that the crystallinity of the polymer is important and there are reports2 that the rate of deterioration in electrical properties is dependent on the conductivity of the aqueous solution, which indicates an ionic phenomenon. We have previously shown3 that both the rate of water absorption, and the amount of water absorbed by specimens of low density polythene are decreased by heat treatments causing the density, and hence the crystallinity, to increase. Experiments are now described which clearly demonstrate the influence of the ions in the water."
"The voltage endurance of liquid impregnated paper insulation is important in both test and service for high voltage equipment such as transformers, capacitors, and cable. It has been recognized for a long time that if electrical discharges occur, they may limit the life. Especially with cable, corona studies have been carried out for many years using both dielectric loss measurements (i. e., Schering Bridge) and several types of amplified band pass techniques for more direct measurement of corona pulses."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In a preceding paper1 a close relationship was shown to exist between crystallinity and the complex dielectric constant. Its real part, the dielectric constant, increased with increasing crystallinity while its imaginary part, the dielectric loss factor decreased under the same conditions. This behavior was attributed to the closer, more efficient packing of the macromolecules resulting in a better utilization of space and a higher density in the more crystalline polymers than in the amorphous ones. Crystalline, thermoplastic polymers, however, exhibit physical properties which are not very desirable. Such polymers are usually stiff and prone to stress cracking. From a practical viewpoint it would be desirable to alleviate these shortcomings without adversely affecting the electrical properties."
"The capacitance bridge, first described in its present form by Dakin and Malinaric,1 has proved to be a very useful tool for measuring insulation quality, and is regularly used in our laboratory (along with a 60 Hz Hartmann and Braun transformer ratio arm bridge) for periodic diagnostic measurements of insulation samples undergoing life test. Since we accelerate these life tests by applying a high-frequency voltage at 420 or 1440 Hz rather than 60 Hz, it is essential to know whether the total charge transfer per cycle, Q, due to partial discharges varies significantly with frequency; for only if Q is frequency-independent can the ratio of test frequency to 60 Hz be taken as the acceleration factor. Using the capacitance bridge and a high-power audio-frequency oscillator, we have measured Q over the frequency range from 60 to 1600 Hz on a variety of types of insulation, including various specimens of resin-impregnated-mica generator insulation and solid resin insulation. Where one's interest is in the discharges in internal voids in the insulation, it is necessary that the electrodes should make intimate and void-free contact with the insulation surface and that guard rings should be applied to exclude from the measurement surface discharges at the electrode edges. With these precautions, it is found that, in all samples measured, Q is frequency-independent. A typical example of the charge versus voltage parallelogram display is shown in Fig. 1, for frequencies of 60, 420, and 1440 Hz; no variation is evident."
"The measurement of dielectric properties of insulating materials is a continuing challenge because new materials with decreasing loss levels are being provided for new applications which also require increasingly precise knowledge of dielectric parameters for efficient system design."
"The measurement of streamer velocities in insulating liquids and gases requires considerable apparatus and knowledge, and cannot be considered a laboratory routine. Velocities in some liquids have been estimated using high speed cameras and photocells1 or by the use of Lichtenberg figures2 and chopped impulse waves, but even in these cases, the values quoted are considered approximate. With the present-day trend to more compact HV apparatus and use of new dielectrics, it would appear that a simple technique for assessing streamer velocities would be worthwhile. It is believed that such a method, which only utilizes apparatus common to most HV laboratories and employs small (<30 mm) electrode spacings, is now available. This technique was recognized by the author during a recent investigation of the charge and energy associated with ac point-to-insulated plane discharges in mineral oil, when it was noted that the value of positive streamer velocity estimated from the current pulse rise time for a small gap agreed closely with published data1, 3 for gaps near 100 mm. This encouraged an examination of streamer propagation in other insulating liquids and gases."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The year 2000 seems incredibly remote. So, this survey will concentrate on a not so distant time, 1999, just 25 years from now. Much of the energy equipment that we are installing now will either be still in use, typical electric utility equipment is expected to have a useful life of 30 years, or will be largely unchanged in form and function. The dielectrics being employed now will still be holding off voltage in 1999. The decisions and commitments that are being made now, both in equipment construction and in research and development emphasis, will largely shape the future generation and use of energy through the end of the century."
"Recently there has been an upsurge in the interest in batteries, in particular, those having high energy density and involving molten salts or solids as the electrolyte. It is the intention of this paper to show why there is an interest in batteries at the present time and what role solids that exhibit fast ion transport can play in the battery and energy conversion area."
"There is considerable technological interest in ion conducting solids for utilization in high energy and high power density battery and fuel cell systems and an intensive search is underway for materials with high conductivity for specific ions at low temperature. The majority of ionic crystals are insulators and exhibit small conductivity at temperatures appreciably below their melting point. A few solids, such as the silver halides and chalcogenides, the beta-alumina family of compounds, and mixed valence oxides with the fluorite arrangement, have exceptionally high ionic conductivity at relatively low temperatures (Fig. 1). This paper discusses the theoretical crystal-chemical and structural factors limiting high ionic conductivity in solids and problems hindering the discovery of superior new solid ionic conductors."
"Dielectric materials in direct energy conversion systems are usually in the form of metal-oxide insulating bodies which are used to achieve electrical isolation within the system."
"The deployment of solar energy as a major energy source in the near future depends mainly on a cost reduction of approximately two orders of magnitude in the manufacturing of present day cells. Much of the excess cost is directly attributable to the use of crystalline silicon. The present goal of most attempts to overcome these excessive costs is to convert to thin film processing. Presently, major emphasis along these lines is being given to the inorganic systems such as silicon and cadmium sulfide. It is the purpose of this paper to show that organic systems may also be possible. From a manufacturing point of view, organics seem to have a distinct advantage. The main thrust of this paper will be to compare organic systems directly with the inorganics from the aspect of required fundamental parameters. Before doing this, however, a brief description of a photovoltaic device will be given in order to demonstrate the origin of the desired parameters. Finally, the operation of an organic photovoltaic device will be described in some detail to illustrate the potential of these systems."
"The energy needs of our society are steadily increasing due to the increase in population and the desire for higher standards of living (the Gross National Product is a monototonic function of the energy consumed).1 The fuel supply is not sufficient to satisfy such needs in the future. First natural gas, then oil, will be in short supply and will force consumers to explore alternative resources. It is certain that current comfort conditioning with natural gas and oil must change to other forms of producing heat, such as using synthetic fuels, electricity using heat pumps, and solar energy. The latter has great attraction as nondepletable fuel; however, its intensity fluctuation and high first cost of the needed conversion equipment has prevented major use of solar energy."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This group of papers report on much of the recent investigations of electrochemical or water treeing breakdown in polyethylene and polyethylene cables. Nine of the ten papers deal with electrochemical treeing and one (page 207∗) considers primarily electrical treeing in dry conditions. A number of cable failures in service have been associated with the evidence of numerous partial breakdowns in the cable having the appearance of a small tree or bush. This is the reason for the intensive study of this phenomena, particularly in Japan and North America."
"Accelerated life tests of polymer insulation is used to get rapid life distribution data. Low-density polyethylene (DED 2005) used as the specimen was heated for 15 min at 130°C. A needle electrode was then inserted into the specimen. The needle tip was ground to an angle of 30° and a radius of curvature of 5 μ. The arrangement of electrodes in the specimens is shown in Fig. 1. The test frequencies were 50, 300, 1000, 3000, and 10,000 Hz."
"Extensive studies have been made in recent years on water treeing phenomena in polyethylene (PE) and cross-linked polyethylene (XLP) insulated cables. There are reports on many types of water trees found in cables removed from the field.1, 2, 3 These are classified into two types, a) vented, considered to be open to the atmosphere, and b) nonvented, considered to be closed to the atmosphere.4"
"The courageous acceptance of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) cables for power transmission and distribution during the past decade results from significant advances in manufacturing technology and quality. Successful service stimulates cable engineers to extend XLPE cable toward higher power capability through higher operating voltages. In recent years two practical and technological approaches have been developed for XLPE power cable; one is the development of a new type of manufacturing process,1 the other is the incorporation of a certain additive (voltage stabilizer) into solid insulation. This additive helps in the prevention or suppression of premature failure or cumulative deterioration, leading to insulation puncture."
"The formation of water trees leads to the deterioration of XLPE and PE cables in service and the shortening of their life. It has been shown that water trees originate from the aggregation of water in high electric field regions by dielectrophoresis.1 The growth of water trees is described in this paper."
"Our investigation on extruded cables in water had two main purposes: (1) to define a practical method involving the smallest number of accelerating factors for the evaluation of the ability of cables to withstand service in water and (2) to compare the performance of different materials, mainly our EPM compounds (compound A for M. V. and compound B for H. V.) and commercially available PE and XLPE for M. V., looking at the overall behavior of the cables rather than at particular phenomena, such as treeing."
"As part of qualification testing of new solid dielectric cable designs rated 5 kV and above, the usual procedure of the laboratory with which I am associated has been to immerse cable samples into hot water baths at elevated electrical stresses while monitoring dissipation factor (D.F.), dielectric constant (ε), insulation resistivity (ρ), and time to failure. We call this procedure an Electrical Moisture Absorption (EMA) test. Our arrangement is a departure from industry1 practice by virtue of the continuous elevated electrical stresses and higher bath temperatures employed. A more detailed description of the test along with typical results are given in reference 2."
"Many organic insulating materials have voltage lives but the mechanism determining the voltage lives has not been established. In the case of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE), by using a new experimental method, we observed that visible unhomogeneous micro-deterioration “microtrees” occurred in the insulation. We concluded that the voltage lives may be determined by these microtrees."
"A project has been initiated under the auspices of the Electric Power Research Institute to further investigate electrochemical treeing. Prior studies1,2 established that an essential ingredient in the inception and propagation of electrochemical trees is the presence of a liquid such as water. We have studied the influence of some of the components present in water on tree growth. These tests were performed using distilled water, tap water, and distilled or tap water with modified salt content. Results indicate that salt content affects both tree growth and tree intensity. At constant applied voltage, frequency and temperature, the results also tend to indicate that tree inception and propagation are influenced by the electrical stress at the location of the imperfection and by the nature of the liquid."
"The existence of electrochemical trees in high-voltage extruded-type cables installed in numerous locations was first examined and reported by Lawson and Vahlstrom.1 An analysis and further laboratory studies of this phenomenon was reported by Bahder et al.2 This reference paper defines electrochemical trees caused by ingress of moisture from the environment and demonstrates that, under highly accelerated test procedures, this type of tree formation can be generated within weeks in the laboratory when frequency acceleration is used. The correlation between electrochemical treeing and the electrical properties of selected commercial insulations used on underground cables was further analyzed by Bahder et al. 3 This analysis discusses the various mechanisms of tree formation in extruded type cables exposed to moisture and indicates the role that electrochemical tree growth plays in electrical properties."
"Along with the wide expansion of the applications of cross-linked PE (CLP) insulated cables, it has been noted that the polyethylene in submerged PE insulated Cable absorbed water under conditions of high electric stress and was subject to water treeing deterioration."
"The point-plane gap has been widely used in studies of discharges and breakdowns of gases, liquids and solids (the last including treeing tests). For this geometry, the ratio of maximum to average electric stress is calculable from Emax/Eav = 2d/[r ln(1 + 4d/r)] (1) where r is the point radius and d is the distance of point to plane."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In this session on relaxation and related phenomena, thermally stimulated currents, photocurrents, dc conduction, and ac bridge measurements of dielectric constant and loss, are used to investigate phenomena as diverse as (a) molecular motions and their temperature dependence in polymers, solid alcohols, and perhaps in ice, (b) the microscopic nature of the motions, and of the dipoles responsible for polarization, (c) the ferroelectricity and the nature of the conduction in ice, and (d) interfacial effects at liquid impregnant-solid boundaries in insulators."
"Although a glass transition is generally considered to be characteristic of the supercooled liquid state, evidence has accumulated in recent years to indicate that some crystalline solids, in which the molecules retain a certain degree of rotational freedom, show, on supercooling below the temperature of their transformation to a non-rotor phase, a behavior which is phenomenologically similar to the glass transition.1 These solids, which are generally known as plastic crystals or orientationally-disordered solids, undergo a decrease in their heat capacity in the supercooled metastable state and have definite residual entropy at 0°K."
"Dielectric relaxations in solids are generally investigated by means of dielectric loss measurements at frequencies ranging from 1 to 1012 Hz. Recently a new method has been proposed, which is based on the discharge current curves obtained during heating of dielectrics previously polarized at a high temperature with a dc field [ionic thermocurrent1 or thermally stimulated discharge methods: T. S.D.2] This technique appears to be particularly well suited to this type of study owing to its very low equivalent frequency (10−2–10−4 Hz) leading to a high resolution of the different relaxation processes.2"
"Transport and storage of charge in the ice/water system play a role in cloud discharge, condensation, and precipitation processes. We report the effects of specific solutes on the dielectric relaxation spectrum (20 Hz to 100 KHz) and the conductivity of ice single crystals. Solute concentrations are given as moles per liter of melted ice. The experimental techniques have been outlined elsewhere.1,2 Most ice samples were sandwiched between Teflon foils of either 0. 005 cm or 0. 024 cm thickness. Measurements with these blocking electrodes suppress space charge effects and surface conduction; they yield a dc conductivity derived from an associated relaxation time; they facilitate the separation of the spectrum into a small number of components,3 each characterized by a single relaxation time."
"In recent investigations of the electrical conductivity of organic high polymers, evidence has accumulated, indicating that in many polymers the charging and discharging currents, or at least parts thereof, may be attributed to the movement of electronic rather than ionic charge. The measurement of non-isothermal discharge or thermally stimulated currents (TSC) can thus yield information on the trapping parameters of the traps of various types, which are generally held to be present in organic polymers, as well as on classical polarization phenomena, i.e, dipole orientation."
"It is relatively recent that the investigation of photocurrents in polymers has started. In 1956, Fowler1 investigated the X ray-induced current in various polymers and succeeded in explaining the phenomenon in terms of the electronic nature. In succession, Wintle et al.2 and other workers3,4 have studied and discussed photoconductive phenomena in polymer materials."
"To isolate the influence of long range dipole-dipole forces on dielectric relaxation (internal field effect), one seeks a system for which the microscopic response (γ, molecular dipolar auto-correlation function) is well characterized and then observes the effect on the complex dielectric permittivity (ε∗) ascribable to long range dipolar interactions. Generally speaking, the theory of the internal field furnishes a relation of the form Liω(−γ) = f(εo ε∗, ε∞) where the values of the parameters of γ are usually unknown in advance.1,2,3 In principle, for ellipsoidal molecules with nonvanishing dipole moment components along two or more symmetry axes or for mixtures of rigid molecules, the functional form of the microscopic response is known a priori or may be determined via measurements using nonpolar solvents. In practice, the models are over-parameterized with respect to the accuracy of permittivity and loss measurements in the appropriate frequency region (microwave) and no definitive separation of the internal field influence and the long range dipolar interaction free molecular reorientation [i. e., testing of the relation f = L(−γ)] has been described in the literature."
"The thermodielectric spectra of two series of amorphous polyole-fins were obtained from −180°C to above their glass transitions temperatures. Frequencies of 30 Hz, 100 Hz, 1kHz and 10 kHz were utilized to obtain “apparent” activation energies of both the glass (α) and glassy-state (β + γ) transitions and to correlate the loss maxima with published dynamic mechanical studies.1,2 These two series of amorphous polymers are represented by the formulae -[(CH2)m − C(CH3)2]-n and -[(CH2)m C(CH3) (C2H5)]-n where m = 1, 2, and 3. These polymers are of fundamental importance to polymer science. A reason for their importance lies in the systematic in-chain variation of one — CH2 — between consecutive members of each series since it is the structure and influence of the main chain per se which is central to polymeric behavior. The absence of polar forces, tacticity and crystallinity allows the results to be interpreted solely in terms of geometric effects. One reason for neglect of the series is that synthetic problems remain.1, 3"
"The existence of the orientational disorder of water molecules, as evident from the residual entropy, is cruicial to many of the properties of ice; one need only mention the dielectric properties and the shear flow of ice to illustrate its importance. The Third Law of thermodynamics insists that at low enough temperatures the equilibrium state of ice (as, of course, of all states of matter), should be orientationally ordered. The electrical nature of the ordered state may be either ferroelectric, a state in which (ignoring the domain structure) the majority of the dipole vectors are unidirectional, or antiferroelectric, a state in which the dipole vectors are opposite in direction. It has been suggested that the hexagonal ice may transform to a ferroelectric phase near 110°K.1–5 The evidence was obtained from measurement of the thermally stimulated depolarization (TSD) current in a sample of ice to which an electric field was applied during cooling to 77°K. A peak in current was observed near 110°K and was interpreted as indicating the ferroelectric ordering."
"In previous work1,2 we showed that paper impregnated with liquids of high permittivity, such as nitrobenzene, exhibited strong non-linear effects. When, however, the paper was replaced by polypropylene foil, the nonlinear effects were much smaller. We have done numerous experiments with different kinds of insulating solids and liquids, using either industrial capacitor foils, or cells of small capacitance with well-defined geometry (liquid layer between two parallel solid sheets). Depending on the nature of the materials, the insulator/liquid association exhibits, to a variable extent, both a “barrier” — or GARTON — effect, and an “absorption” effect (ions are trapped into the solid where they can move very slowly only)."
"The elucidation of the structure of polyimide, poly (4, 4'-oxydiphenyl pyromellitimide), is important insofar as it determines the properties and use limits of the material. For example, an unidentified transition in the 25°–100°C region was believed responsible1 for the drastic decrease in frictional coefficient and increase in wear life found for this material."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In space applications, electrons or ions are drawn from the ionospheric plasma to the exposed surface of electrical insulation over electrodes which are at a potential different than the plasma. Knowledge of how easily such deposited charges can flow across the dielectric surface when a high electric field gradient exists in the plane of the surface, is of practical importance."
"As is well known, an insulator in vacuum subjected to high-voltage stress may experience rapid electrical breakdown via surface flashover. Although electron multiplication on the insulator surface is generally thought to play an important role in the flashover mechanism, a full understanding of this role is lacking.1–6 In this work, the low-impedance discharge is assumed to occur in a layer of plasma generated by the electron avalanche, rather than in a thin layer of adsorbed gas on the insulator surface.3,5,7 Heating by the avalanche is considered as a mechanism by which gas is evolved from the insulator surface."
"High voltage applied to insulators in vacuum can result in a positive surface charge remaining after the voltage is removed. This is believed to be caused by an electron avalanche, i.e., a cascade of electrons multiplying on the surface by secondary electron emission, resulting in remnant positive charge on the insulator surface. The source of the primary electrons initiating the avalanche is considered to be field emitted electrons from the cathode."
"The paper reports on the results of the insulation performance of dielectric coated electrodes in SF6 gaseous medium. The results indicate that substantial improvements are obtained in the breakdown voltages and prebreakdown currents over those of the uncoated electrodes."
"The choice of the gas pressure in an SF6 insulated apparatus depends on many factors, one of which is the roughness of the electrode surfaces. This leads to the existence of microscopic field regions with field strengths larger than the macroscopic average field in the gas near the electrode surfaces. Depending on the gas pressure, such regions of enhanced field strength can result in a marked reduction of the dielectric strength.1–11 The present study is an attempt to discuss this phenomenon in terms of the streamer theory of breakdown.12–13"
"The application of a sufficiently high dc voltage to a dry film capacitor causes failure of the film dielectric or arcover. Many applications use a liquid or wax impregnant to raise the voltage for arcover to an acceptable value. However, our experience has shown that these impregnants are unreliable in capacitors that will be used over a wide temperature range, e. g., −55° to +74°C, and in any orientation. Failure occurs in bubbles or cracks that form in the liquid or wax at low temperature. Bubbles and cracks are avoided if a gas is used as imprégnant."
"It is currently believed that the extension of an electrical “tree” in solid insulation depends on the establishment of a plasma within an existing tubule. Thus, voltage is conveyed from the electrode to regions deep in the solid, which breakdown locally where the stress concentration is such that the intrinsic strength is exceeded. Evidently the electric strength of the gas in the tubules is an important factor, but since they can be as small as 1 μm in diameter, the growth of avalanches is inhibited by the loss of electrons to the dielectric wall and by the field distortion caused by the resulting surface charge. When avalanches are inhibited, the electric strength of the gas is increased, so that the observation of complete penetration of a specimen by a tree channel not leading to breakdown is perhaps understandable.1 On the other hand, it is reported that the electric strength of gas in sections of tree channels is about 40 kV cm−1, i.e., only slightly in excess of the uniform field strength of unbounded air. Actual “tree” tubules are tortuous and the diameter varies along the length so that detailed quantitative investigations are difficult. However, it has proved possible to produce cylindrical tubules of air confined in PMMA and in glass of diameter down to 10 μm, which effectively demonstrate the effects of the wall."
"The phenomena of Lichtenberg figures has been known and studied for many decades. Photographic recording of the discharge figures has been used for impulse voltage measurement. They are produced by breakdown from a point or cylinder end over the surface of an insulating barrier above a ground plane. The diameter of the discharge pattern, which is recorded on a photographic film under the electrode, is related to the impulse voltage applied. This voltage measuring device has become known as a Klydonograph."
"The actual conditions of contaminated surfaces have a consistent influence on the performance of insulation apparatus."
"The problems of surface leakage because of humid pollution is investigated on the basis of a uniform conducting surface having a singular point of higher or lower conductivity."
"Nonuniformity in insulating paper has drawn our particular interest as an indispensable factor in order to clarify the dielectric breakdown mechanism in oil-impregnated paper."
"The dielectric material used in microelectric industry is mainly SiO2. Because of its excellent and reproducible interface properties, thermal oxide was applied to both active and passive components of the devices. However, as more complex semiconductor devices and circuits were developed, additional requirements were placed on the dielectric layer system. In certain cases, the thermal oxide by itself was not sufficient. Therefore, in order to satisfy various purposes, new dielectric material thin films were developed. Si3N4 and Al2O3 are the two most commonly used among the many others. TiO2 offers some distinct advantages due to its high dielectric constant. Several known techniques were used for forming the thin TiO2 films such as CVD, anodization, oxidation, radio frequency sputtering, and liquid and vacuum deposition. Among those processes, CVD is proved to be the most versatile, simple, and reliable process."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Many liquid dielectrics, when stressed by high electric fields, support bulk space charge distributions. To model such conduction processes, recent work1 has used a unipolar ion mobility conduction model similar to that used for solid state semiconductors, where the velocities of charge carriers injected from an emitting electrode are proportional to the electric field and in turn the electric field is related to the charge densities through Gauss's law. Diffusion can be approximately neglected when applied voltages are much greater than the contact potentials.2 This model has been applied to liquid dielectrics in the dc steady state3 and for small signal perturbations about this steady state.4 Other work performed a heuristic analysis for the transient field and charge behavior with the application of a step current.5 Most of the published analysis has been limited to space charge limited conditions, whereby the electric field at the charge emitting electrode is assumed to be zero."
"Although much work has been performed on the study of electrical breakdown in simple hydrocarbon liquids such as n-hexane, considerable doubt exists as to the nature of the breakdown mechanism. In order to attempt to resolve some of these uncertainties, an ultra high speed laser schlieren system was constructed, which enabled photographs to be taken for the first time of events occurring before and during breakdown. A description of the apparatus and preliminary results have been reported previously so that only a brief description will be given.1"
"In 1836, Faraday noted that turpentine would rise along high voltage leads; in 1926 Gyemant studied the rise of oil and found it was proportional to the square of the applied voltage. The effects then received little attention until 1955 when Sumoto again called attention to them. A historical survey has been given by Pickard.1"
"Based on many research investigations and much practical experience, it is well established that the performance capabilities of organic insulating oils are impaired by the presence of contaminants, such as water.1 Recent proposals to use silicone fluids as insulating oils have raised many questions about the effect of contaminants on the electrical properties of these materials."
"In numerous project studies in the field of power engineering, liquid nitrogen (LN2) is not only used for cooling purposes, but also for electrical insulation. The dielectric strength of LN2 is therefore investigated mainly in quasi-homogeneous electrode arrangements1,2 or — for the investigation of predischarges — in point-plane gaps with point radii of only a few μm and spark gaps of a few cm.3"
"Liquified gases have simpler molecular structure than hydrocarbon liquids. Corona discharge in liquid dielectrics is often accompanied by bubbling. The bubbles in liquified gas may be formed by vaporization of the liquid, while those in hydrocarbon liquid are formed by rupture of the molecular bonds. Therefore, characteristics of corona discharge in liquified gases are expected to be less complex than those in hydrocarbon liquids. The characteristics would give instructive suggestions for the study of corona discharge and breakdown in insulating oils. In the present investigation we observed ac (50 Hz) and dc corona and bubbling in liquid nitrogen, and a luminescence in the liquid after flashover across the gap."
"In a previous paper,1 a program underway at Oak Ridge National Laboratory to investigate the high voltage electrical properties of fluids and solids for cryogenic systems was described. As the first result of these investigations, we report here on measurements of the breakdown strength of liquid helium boiling at atmospheric pressure, under voltages up to ± 130 kV de, and in gaps of up to 2. 5 mm. Preliminary results with ac voltage have also been obtained."
"For several years, Union Carbide Corporation has been working on a superconducting cable system R/D project sponsored by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and the U. S. Department of the Interior. It is one of several cable R/D projects initiated by the EPRI Underground Transmission R/D Subcommittee. The major objective of the present study is the demonstration of both the technical and economic feasibility of ac superconducting power transmission with an immediate goal of constructing a 40-foot long laboratory model of a single phase of a 3400 MVA cable."
"Assuming a certain stage of development has been attained, it will be possible in the future to use cables with superconductors if they are reliable and economical.1, 2 In addition to the development of superconductors, the cryogenic envelope, and cooling equipment, it is necessary to investigate feasible dielectrics at a few degrees K. This paper is intended to give information regarding the experimental determination of the breakdown strength of paper wrappings impregnated with supercritical helium which could be used in direct voltage cables with superconductors."
"There is currently an active effort in the United States and abroad to develop materials, both conductors and insulators, that can be used to construct an underground, superconducting, ac power line.1–4 While most of the attention has been directed toward decreasing the ac loss in Nb and Nb3Sn superconductors, it is equally important to find a low-loss dielectric. Simple calculations indicate that the loss tangent of the dielectric must be ≲ 2 × 10−5 in order that 60 Hz dielectric loss not dominate the superconducting cable loss."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In recent years, there have appeared a number of solids, some crystalline, some amorphous, in which the dielectric constants are strikingly high. Some are organic, some inorganic solids. Recently, a few have been found with dielectric constants from 50 to 300, 000. It is the purpose of this discussion to point out the types of pure homogenous solids which show such enhanced electrical polarizations, and to suggest some of the reasons for it. Our discussions will be restricted to the case of pure homogeneous solids, and will not dwell upon the matter of mixed-phase dielectrics wherein, by the use of metallic fillers, etc., high polarizability can also be obtained."
"In a previous study of the electrical conduction properties of 3% carbon loaded polyethylene,1 a near quadratic dependence of the dc current on voltage was observed between 104 and 5 × 105 V/cm. This type of behavior is usually associated with space charge limited conduction and has been observed by several workers in unfilled polyethylene.2,3 This report deals with a detailed study of the time, voltage, and temperature dependence of this conduction regime in 3% carbon loaded polyethylene. By extending the measurements to higher temperatures than previously reported, new features of the current transients were observed."
"This report presents some observations on the effects of interface conditions and ambient atmosphere on the high field (0.4 to 2. 0 MV/cm) conduction phenomena in polyethylene, depending upon its structure."
"Spectroscopy is rapidly becoming an established method of research in many branches of science concerned with the study of materials, particularly in chemical analysis where the technique of X-ray electron spectroscopy is widely used at the moment. These instruments are, however, very expensive and it is believed that an electron beam spectrometer used to study transmitted low energy electrons may provide a more economical method with comparable performance."
"Charge injection into polymer films with low-energy electron beams in vaccum has developed into a valuable tool for permanently charging1 such films and for studying the charge dynamics during and after injection.2 While many experiments on charged polymers (electrets) are performed under vacuum conditions, it is often necessary to expose such samples to atmospheric pressure. An increase of the ambient pressure of electrets previously charged by injection of electron beams results, however, in one or two distinct discharge phenomena depending on the radiation history of the sample. 3 At pressures below 1 Torr a series of discrete discharges propagating through the grounded sample electrodes into the surrounding medium is observed. Furthermore, for samples radiation hardened (i.e., pre-irradiated with a high dose) before charging, a continuous charge release within the sample occurs at higher pressures. These effects will be further discussed in the present paper."
"The importance of polyethylene as an insulating material in low and high voltage applications is well recognized. The measurement of dielectric strengths is, however, even under laboratory conditions, generally beset with numerous difficulties, and results depend to a large extent upon experimental conditions and sample geometry. Within a research program investigating correlations between the electrical strength of polyethylenes and chemical, physical, and impurity structure, a first aim was to study the electrical breakdown in the absence of inner and outer disturbances, in other words, the “material” or as it is commonly called, the “intrinsic” breakdown strength."
"Appendixes"
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The material in this chapter was gathered from Electrical and Electronic Abstracts, Physics Abstracts, and directly from the literature. The coverage is essentially the same as in previous years. With this subject, when the titles usually contain sufficient information, it is the author's opinion that subdivision of the bibliography serves a better purpose than attempting to deal with a large number of the entries. Therefore the bibliography is subdivided further than in previous years and much more so than the text. A notable feature is the interest in the submillimetre and far-infrared part of the spectrum. This can be expected to continue for a number of years during which much greater technological use will be made of this relatively untouched part of the electromagnetic spectrum. The volume of work in the conventional microwave region continues unabated."
"The tables of this chapter contain data reported in publications abstracted by Chemical Abstracts for 1974. In most cases the values cited have been taken from the original literature. In cases where the original literature was unavailable, the Chemical Abstracts citation follows the reference. The tables cover measurements on pure materials and dilute solutions, but do not include work on mixtures or poorly characterized substances."
"Advances in understanding fundamental dielectric properties of atoms, molecules, and ions in the gaseous, liquid, and solid states constitute a major portion of the literature on dielectrics. This chapter presents only those papers which make a significant contribution to these areas of dielectric phenomena either through a theoretical analysis or through experimental data directed toward a theoretical understanding. Papers that would be more appropriately discussed under specific titles of other chapters have been omitted."
"This chapter covers electrical conduction and associated physical phenomena in solid dielectrics. Narrow-band semiconductors and insulators are included, but generally speaking, work on broad-band semiconductors has been omitted."
"Breakdown in solids and over surfaces of solids continues to be an area of great technological interest. Understanding has improved in high field conduction of very thin, high-quality films, laser-induced damage, and in aspects of relatively low-field, long-time deterioration of dielectrics. In comparisons of breakdown properties of structurally similar materials, certain consistencies have been pointed out, but the often-sought general relationships between mechanical, thermal, and breakdown properties remain elusive. The anticipation of greater utilization of electrical energy has spurred research in cryogenic cables. Studies of deterioration and failure of insulation systems in cables, transformers, and polluted insulators continue because of their economic importance. Reviews during 1974 treated thin film breakdown (50) and laser-induced damage (55, 56), A symposium on treeing phenomena was held during the 1973 Conference on Electrical Insulation and Dielectric Phenomena."
"The scope and format of this chapter is much the same as that of the previous year. Again the subject of liquid crystals was omitted from the text, since the subject matter, as pointed out in the previous year, has become far too voluminous and specialized to be treated adequately within a section alone. A separate chapter on liquid crystals would thus appear in order."
"The scope and format of the chapter are similar to those of previous years, the literature being reviewed under the following major headings: Monoenergetic Beam Experiments; Swarm Data; Uniform Field Breakdown; Nonuniform Field Breakdown; Breakdown with High Frequency and Magnetic Fields; Laser-Induced Breakdown; Gas Lasers; and Applications. The material was gathered directly from the literature and with the use of Physics Abstracts and Electrical and Electronic Abstracts."
"Studies of the processes involved in conduction and breakdown in vacuum again proved to be an active field in 1974 with 140 papers published. Approximately one-third of these papers were presented at the VI International Symposium on Discharges and Electrical Insulation in Vacuum (1). Prebreakdown and breakdown phenomena received much attention at this symposium, and there were several significant reviews (2)."
"The preparation and organization of the 1974 survey of literature dealing with the electrical properties of polymers is similar to that of preceding years. A major difference is the inclusion of the subject of electrets as a separate topic. It is hoped that this will improve the chapter since over the past few years the subject of electrets has become a major field of study and references tend to have been scattered over three or four chapters. Additionally, the sectioning of some general topics has been altered."
"This chapter is concerned with all aspects of thin insulating films; fabrication, structure, analysis, and properties are included in the bibliography. With the increasing number of contributions to the literature concerning insulating films it was felt necessary to further subdivide the bibliography to facilitate information retrieval. The section on electrical conduction in thin films has now been divided into four subdivisions under the headings of conduction, mobility, space charge limited currents, and thermally stimulated currents. Similarly the section on metal-insulator-semiconductor structures has also been subdivided. As in previous years a materials table has been included for quick reference of selected materials."
"Most dielectric materials acquire and retain an electrostatic charge when touched to, and separated from, another material. This electrostatic charge leads to electrical fields which can attract or repel other charged objects or can cause disruptive discharges (sparks) in air or through the body of a dielectric material. In some cases, the attractive (or repulsive) forces can be used beneficially as in eletrostatic copying, spray painting, and beneficiation of ores. In other cases they are detrimental, such as in soiling of fabrics, dust attraction to transparent material, etc. Static sparks can cause many detrimental effects, ranging from discomfort to a person experiencing a shock from a small spark, through destruction of many solid state devices, to explosions, and fires in flammable atmospheres. Larger “sparks”, such as atmospheric lightning, can destroy property and life. The majority of studies included in this bibliography are aimed at the elimination of static charge or its detrimental effects. A few studies attempt to make beneficial use of static charge but few of these find separation charging sufficiently reliable for their purposes."
"Several interesting developments occurred in 1974. What may well be the final phase diagram on BaO-TiO2 appeared (721-3), with two independent groups in agreement. Interest in holography by laser damage continues to increase, principally in doped LiNbO3 (see Holography); it was reported that (Sr, Ba)Nb2O6 is even more sensitive (620). The ultimate extremes in isotope effects were reported, with PbHPO4 (monoclinic) showing a rise of transition temperature of 142° on deuteration (1603), while the transition of Ca2Sr propionate was lowered on deuteration (1665, 1778). A few new ferroelectrics continue to be discovered, of which PbHPO4 (and possible isomorphs) may well be the most interesting because of the comparisons with the KDP group. In fact, it is my belief that such a comparison may well effect a whole new point of view concerning the mechanism of the ferroelectric phase transition."
"Since the pioneering work by Oncley (1) on protein solutions, there have been a great deal of investigations on the dielectric behavior of macromolecules such as globular proteins and DNA. These studies established the electric moment and hydration in relation to the size and shape of these macromolecules. In recent years, however, the emphasis has been shifted to synthetic polypeptides and polyelectrolytes from natural biopolymers. Studies on synthetic polymers have been intended to elucidate the mechanism of electric polarization and its relaxation behavior as well as the hydrodynamic properties of the molecule. These detailed investigations are possible only when their structural units are already known. The use of simple model compounds is preferable for a complete understanding of all possible mechanisms of the dielectric relaxations. Because of stringent requirements imposed by the nature of the intended research, the use of simple model substances has been of particular interest."
"There were fewer papers to review in 1974 than in previous years, but what was reported was significant. XLPE cables are cables are being offered for 154kV ratings while oil/ paper is pushing 1000kV. Synthetic papers have poorer frictional properties than cellulose so that damage results during bending. It is claimed that the design of XLPE cable can be doubled by impregnation with SF6."
"The electromagnetic scattering properties of a medium bounded by a plane surface and whose (scalar) dielectric constant is the sum of a nonrandom part assumed to vary only with depth and a small random part are investigated by means of an approximate, first-order perturbation method. It is shown that the equivalent dielectric constant to be used in calculating the average reflected power in the specular direction is a function of depth even in the case where the nonrandom part of the dielectric constant is independent of depth. Further, the equivalent dielectric constant is shown to be a tensor. Nonspecular scattering is also considered."
"The continuity equation of electron density is solved for the conditions of the F2 region at low latitude along 69°W meridian in the equinox of high solar activity. The transport term includes the electromagnetic drift observed at Jicamarca, the plasma diffusion, the vertical motion due to thermal expansion and contraction, and the neutral wind for which the direction reversal in the morning is rather late. The large-scale irregularity which forms a bifurcated F2 layer is generated at the geomagnetic equator and travels as far as 15° latitude with a speed of about 10 km min−1. Other features of this bifurcation and the probable mechanism of its formation are described. The height of maximum electron density is strongly controlled by the electromagnetic drift at very low latitude from 0700 to midnight. The computation also shows that the large postsunset peak of NmF2 at a subtropical region is caused by the rapid sunset increase of upward drift at the equator. The late reversal of neutral wind favors the observed diurnal pattern of NmF2. Other effects of neutral wind and that of loss rate on the low latitude ionosphere are discussed."
"A horizontal electric dipole antenna at the ground operating at ULF can excite hydromagnetic TE waves in the hydromagnetic waveguide centered at the F2 ionization maximum. Propagation in the waveguide accompanied by leakage into the earth-ionosphere cavity provides a mechanism by which magnetic fluctuations may be transmitted to ground receivers some thousands of kilometers from the transmitter. At ULF, the optimum direction for this mode of operation is broadside to the dipole. Under favorable ionospheric conditions, a dipole 30 km in length and driven at a peak current of 500 amp could produce a ground signal of the order of a milligamma at a distance of 2000 km."
"Near-field patterns of a short electric dipole antenna were measured in the magnetospheric plasma by an instrument aboard the polar orbiting satellite OV1-20S. The most common antenna pattern observed at the fixed operating frequency, 300 kHz, was a dominantly biconic pattern with major axis parallel to the geomagnetic field. The measured cone angles are in reasonable agreement with those predicted by warm plasma theory. There was no discernible systematic asymmetry in these angles such as could be attributed to field-aligned currents in the plasma or to the motion of the satellite through it."
"The nonlinear impedance of a satellite-borne, electric dipole antenna was measured at ELF/VLF at drive voltages between 10 mv and 100 v peak-to-peak. The magnitude of the impedance is in general agreement with the predictions of theoretical models of plasma-clad antennas. At low voltages the phase angle of the impedance is in agreement with linear sheath models, i.e., at low densities the current leads the voltage and as the density increases the phase angle approaches zero. However, at high drive voltages the current lags the voltage. Above 10 v p–p the phase angle often exceeds +90 deg."
"The multiple-scattering technique is extended to include the effects of simple collisions and a vertical magnetic field on the impulse response of a stratified cold plasma. In this case as in the free-electron case it is possible to formulate a multiple-scattering integral for the nth scattered field in terms of the (n — 1)th scattered field. The total response is the sum over all orders of scatter. By an appropriate convolution process it is possible to find the nth scattered field in the presence of collisions and a magnetic field from the corresponding scatter for the free-electron case. This method is used to find the response of an infinite region of exponentially increasing electron density and a half space of uniform electron density in the presence of collisions and a magnetic field."
"The transmission of VHF electromagnetic waves in a curved mine tunnel is analyzed using an idealized model in a cylindrical geometry. The tunnel cross section is assumed to be rectangular and the broad curved walls are imperfectly reflecting. The computations of the modal characteristics are facilitated by using a modified Airy function approximation of the rigorous cylindrical wave functions. The results indicated that the curvature of such tunnels will seriously increase the attenuation of the dominant low-order modes that are used for communications."
"Phase fluctuations on the three-element, 11-cm wavelength interferometer at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) were compared with the difference in the atmospheric water vapor content over the respective antennas along a line-of-sight path to a celestial radio source. At times the correlation coefficient for phase and precipitable water was as high as 0.8. At other times when the minute-to-minute correlation was low, there was still a direct relationship between the rms of the phase fluctuation and the rms of the water vapor fluctuation. This study was conducted as part of an experimental program undertaken by NRAO to predict the severity of the phase fluctuation in the very large array (VLA) telescope proposed for construction."
"A continuous series of backscatter observations at 19 MHz made at Plum Island, Massachusetts, 56°N invariant latitude, over nearly half a solar cycle is utilized to derive occurrence characteristics of ground backscatter propagated by means of F-layer reflection, 1F, as well as those of aspect-sensitive field-aligned echoes from the F layer, FAE(F). Neither field-aligned E-layer echoes nor ground backscatter propagated by means of sporadic F were found to produce any noticeable blanketing of the radar signal for this frequency and radar location. The 1F propagation showed marked sunspot cycle and azimuthal dependence and was strongest in winter and weakest in summer. Under quiet magnetic conditions FAE(F) was primarily a sunset phenomenon, occurring usually at delays of 7 to 10 msec, with a marked sunspot cycle dependence. Some daytime activity was observed at longer delays of 20 to 22 msec which could be explained in terms of F-layer field alignment after one intermediate ground reflection. The occurrence of FAE(F) during magnetic storms showed a seasonal variation in agreement with the well-known storm behavior of foF2 at these latitudes. In general, however, the occurrence of FAE(F) increased monotonically with increasing magnetic activity until the threshold of KFr = 4 was reached, beyond which the depletion in the F-layer background ionization caused it to decrease, with complete cut-off occurring irrespective of season during very disturbed conditions, KFr ≥ 7. With the aid of ray traces, the occurrence statistics of both 1F and FAE(F) are interpreted and discussed in terms of the geometry of the probing radar, the various factors controlling F-layer propagation, and the extent of the F-layer irregularity region."
"Measurements of electron concentration taken at the same time and at the same place in the lower ionosphere by independent instrumentation mounted on the same rocket are described. The technique utilizes Faraday rotation and differential absorption of radio waves propagating from the ground to the rocket at two different frequencies. Agreement near 90 km within ±7%, ±6%, ±8%, and ±3% is demonstrated by the four available cases of coincidence in time and altitude. Maximum dispersion at other altitudes is calculated from known random errors. Stronger variation of electron collision frequency with altitude than with season is indicated by 34 measurements between 75 and 100 km. Insensitivity of electron concentration determinations at 72 km to errors in extrapolated collision frequency models is demonstrated. Partial reflection data are compared with rocket results in the one case of commonality in time and place."
"The application of ionospheric predictions is extended to three-dimensional HF propagation by using a simplified ray-tracing technique involving an ionospheric model consisting of an equivalent spherical reflection surface eccentric with the earth. Predicted ray-path deviations from the great-circle plane and other propagation characteristics are investigated for a medium range midlatitude path by using the NOAA prediction coefficients. The predicted monthly mean diurnal behavior of the azimuthal angle of arrival of the HF signal is compared with experimental data. It is found that the observed occurrence of wave-interference effects is strongly correlated with the predicted occurrence of multiple mode propagation and that the trend of the diurnal variation of the predicted azimuthal angle of arrival for the dominant mode is consistent with the average diurnal trend of the experimental observations."
"A new, fully steerable, decametric array for radio astronomy is under construction at the Clark Lake Radio Observatory near Borrego Springs, California. This array will be a “T” of 720 conical spiral antennas (teepee-shaped antennas, hence the array is called the TPT), 3.0 by 1.8 km capable of operating between 15 and 125 MHz. Both its operating frequency and beam position will be adjustable in less than one msec, and the TPT will provide a 49-element picture around the central beam position for extended-source observations. Considerable experience has been gained in the operation of completed portions of the array, and successful operation of the final array is assured. This paper describes the results of the tests which have been conducted with the conical spirals and outlines the planned electronics."
"The problem of the reflection and transmission of obliquely incident electromagnetic waves by an inhomogeneous plasma slab moving parallel to the magnetostatic field is discussed. For the analysis of the problem, an inhomogeneous plasma slab is subdivided into a number of thin homogeneous layers, and the easier problem of the reflection and transmission by the stratified plasma slab is solved instead of directly treating the wave equations for an inhomogeneous plasma slab. For linear and parabolic electron density profiles, the reflection properties of the moving inhomogeneous magnetoplasma slab are investigated quantitatively with the aid of numerical examples."
"The impedance of a short dipole antenna has been computed using the quasistatic approximation, a triangular current distribution, and the full adiabatic hydrodynamic description of the plasma. Some typical results are presented which show that for parameters typical of the ionosphere the temperature affects mainly the radiation resistance."
"A modal equation for the propagation constants along a thin wire located inside a rectangular waveguide is derived. The regions external to the two horizontal broad walls are homogeneous lossy dielectrics. To facilitate the analysis, the two narrow vertical walls are assumed to be either perfect electric or perfect magnetic reflectors. Special cases that have been treated earlier [Wait, 1972] are recovered."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Ionospheric modification theory is reviewed and the principal phenomena are discussed in the context of present understanding. One fundamental advance has been the recognition that differential heating in collisional plasmas due to the beating of high frequency waves can generate low frequency density fluctuations more effectively than ponderomotive forces. This thermal coupling between the disturbing wave and density fluctuation plays a central role in producing field-aligned structure. Future applications of ionospheric modification in transequatorial scatter communications and D-, E-, and F-region aeronomy are also discussed."
"The Department of Commerce's Platteville transmitter facility has been used to modify the ionosphere since 1970. Design concepts and a description of major components at the facility are discussed. When used for ionospheric modification studies, one of two 10-element ring-array antennas, each producing right- or left-handed circularly polarized signals, is excited by a transmitter which develops up to 2 Mw of average power. These arrays permit operation in the frequency range from 2.7 to 10 MHz, as required to approximately match varying ionospheric critical frequencies."
"Within the past four years, experiments with high power, high frequency radio waves have proved the feasibility of temporarily altering the ionosphere's properties. Many different radio and photometric effects have been observed as a result of the ionospheric modification. This paper provides a survey of some of the effects observed with vertical incidence radio techniques when the US Department of Commerce's Platteville facility, near Boulder, Colorado, is used to illuminate the overhead ionosphere with an equivalent isotropically radiated power of the order of 100 Mw. A variety of different and repeatable phenomena are observed to occur in the F region. A few always occur; for others, apparently, certain ionospheric conditions must exist. E-region effects observed by these techniques are small, but substantial effects are noted in the D region."
"A large circular HF phased array radar has been used to study the angular spectrum of spread-F returns from an ionosphere modified by the intense radio waves from the high power Platteville transmitter. The results obtained are presented to show the dependence of angular spectrum on range delay, Doppler shift, operating frequency, and on the power of the heater transmitter. The phenomenon of wideband attenuation observed with the o-mode diagnostic wave is examined for its dependence on the angle of arrival of the received signal. The angular spectrum of the spread-F returns exhibits a systematic behavior. It is found that the angle of arrival migrates from north to south and the Doppler changes from positive to negative as the range delay examined is changed from the leading edge of the return to the trailing edge. The height dependence of the angular spectrum shows that the volume containing the spread-F irregularities is aligned along the earth's magnetic field. The dependence on the heater power is such that the angular extent of the returns is reduced by a factor of 3 when the heater power is reduced to —9 db of its maximum value of 1.8 Mw. The attenuation suffered by the diagnostic o-mode upon heater turn-on changes with the angle of arrival to reach a maximum with the signal returns arriving from the south. It is shown by means of ray-tracing simulation that the observed interdependence of angle of arrival, Doppler shift, and range delay is consistent with a model of field-aligned ducts for the heater-induced spread-F irregularities. The model, when applied to the conditions at Arecibo and the results compared to that for Platteville, reveals that the range delay spread is about the same and the angular spread is approximately in the same ratio as the heater beamwidths at the two places."
"A series of experiments was conducted with HF and VHF radars at White Sands, New Mexico, during the months of October 1970 and June 1971 to search for direct RF backscatter from ionospheric irregularities produced by the Platteville heater. The observations were made from White Sands because radars at this location view the heated volume normal to the earth's magnetic field lines. Direct echoes from the heated volume were unquestionably observed. Returns were obtained at frequencies up to the highest available at the HF radar site: 30 MHz during the first series of observations and 54 MHz during the second. The echoes were observed only after sunset, at times when the local plasma frequency over Platteville was of the order of 5 MHz at the layer maximum. The total radar scattering cross section of the heated volume was found to decrease with increasing frequency and to vary from less than 104 m2 (the minimum detectable cross section) to 109 m2, depending on frequency and time of day. The Doppler spectrum of the returns indicated that the drift velocity of the scatterers through the heated volume was greater than the relative velocity between scatterers and comparable to the drift velocity of natural irregularities at midlatitudes."
"Radio scattering measurements have been made of a region of the ionosphere above the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences' ionospheric heating facility at Platteville, Colorado. Strong scattering was observed at frequencies in the HF and VHF bands. The scattering has been shown to originate from electron density fluctuations that are highly elongated in the direction of the geomagnetic field. Radar scattering cross sections of 70 to 80 dbsm are measured in the HF and low VHF bands. The scattering cross section decreases at a rate of 20 to 30 db per octave at the high end of the VHF band. The scattering irregularities are produced by operation of the heating facility with o-mode polarization at frequencies that reflect within the ionosphere. The strength of the scattered energy decreases at a rate of at least 10 db per degree for observation geometries that do not match the geometry for specular reflections from long cylinders aligned with the geomagnetic field. The spatial distribution of irregularities has been estimated for both E- and F-region heating. The temporal properties of the scattering have also been determined including the frequency spectrum of the scattered signals. The processes by which ionospheric heating produces these irregularities are not yet fully explained. Several potentially useful applications of radio scattering from such irregularities are discussed."
"It is observed that an ionospheric volume in the F layer subjected to high power HF illumination becomes an effective scattering medium for radio signals in the VHF/UHF frequency range. The experimental results are representative of a field-aligned scattering geometry for which the first such observations of VHF/UHF scattering from a heated ionospheric volume are presented. Two distinct scattering modes are observed, center-line and plasma-line scattering. Center-line scattering is observed at the transmitted radar frequency f; plasma-line scattering is observed as a pair of sidebands at f ± fh where fh is the heater frequency. The two scattering modes are observed to have markedly dissimilar characteristics. Center-line scattering is highly aspect sensitive with respect to the direction of the geomagnetic field, B; plasmaline scattering is found to be much less aspect sensitive, if at all. The region of maximum backscatter for the center-line mode is found from these measurements to consist of the locus of points within the heated volume over which perpendicularity between the radar line of sight and B is achieved, independent of the location of maximum heating. The backscattering region for the plasma-line mode is found from these measurements to be determined by the altitude of maximum heating, independent of geometrical considerations involving B. The longitudinal coherence length, L, for center-line scattering is found from these measurements to be greater than the maximum antenna diameter of 85 ft; no more exact estimate for L is possible. A striking reversal in frequency dependence is found between the center-line and plasma-line modes. The per-unit-volume center-line backscatter cross section is found to be about 7 db greater at VHF than at UHF; the per-unit-volume plasma-line backscatter cross section is found to be at least 11 db less at VHF than at UHF. Preliminary results concerning time-dependent behavior are presented. For both modes the scattering cross section is found to be effectively turned on and off very rapidly in response to the heater excitation; the spectral width of the scattering for both modes is found to be quite narrow (about 10 Hz). The spatial configuration of the heated volume is investigated; significant differences are observed depending on whether fh/foF2 is greater or less than unity."
"A variety of bistatic experiments which were carried out for the purpose of determining the scattering properties of the heated inospheric volume in the F layer over Platteville, Colorado, are described. Results are presented on the basis of which it was first determined that the center-line scattering takes place from elongated field-aligned scattering structures. Measurements are presented showing that, for the center-line mode, the scattering of the incident signal consists, effectively, of specular reflections off the geomagnetic field lines."
"VHF and UHF bistatic radar investigation of a region of the ionosphere modified by a high power transmitter has revealed two modes of scatter. The modes are described in association with parameters of the scatter region and of the received signals."
"An experiment was designed to look for scattering planes from plasma waves traveling parallel to the geomagnetic field lines produced by ionospheric heating. Signals were observed that appear to be due to forward scattering from irregularities associated with ion-acoustic waves having wave numbers 1.5 to 2.0 m−1. The data, however, are ambiguous as to the orientation of the strongest scatterers. VHF scattering from this effect is very small (30 dbsm) compared to scattering from field-aligned irregularities (80 dbsm)."
"Experiments are described to study the morphology of artificial spread-F (ASF) irregularities by measuring the scintillation of VHF and UHF signals transmitted through the disturbed region from geostationary and orbital satellites. The ASF irregularities are found to be approximately field aligned with correlation distances of about 100 m transverse to the field direction; a smaller structure less than 10 m is also seen. The fluctuations seem to be distributed through the entire F layer, and are less than one percent of the ambient electron density at most times."
"The paper presents a model for radio wave scattering from the ionospheric irregularities generated by the intense radio wave transmissions from the Platteville heater. The model is based upon the HF-UHF radar backscatter observations for a physical description of the scattering medium and upon the theory of weak scattering (Born approximation) from anisotropic irregularities for mathematical development. According to the model, the electron density fluctuations responsible for radio wave scattering having an rms value of 1 to 1.5% are aligned along the earth's magnetic field and are distributed in a diffuse pancake-shaped volume of 15 km gaussian thickness vertically and of the size of the heater beam which is 100 km in gaussian diameter horizontally. At radio frequencies the irregularities within the disturbed volume are highly aspect sensitive and consequently only those scatterers which lie on the surface of specularity where a radar views transverse to the magnetic field count in contributing to the received signal. Model computations have been made of the scattering cross sections for monostatic as well as bistatic radar configurations and they are found to be in good agreement with the observations. The radar cross section at a given frequency for bistatic geometry is substantially greater than that for monostatic geometry, all else being equal. Finally, it is shown that the width of the scatter-illuminated bands on the ground is set primarily by the finite dimensions of the scattering volume rather than by the finite aspect sensitivity of the individual scatterers."
"The proper normalization procedure for determining per-unit-volume properties of aspect-sensitive scattering media from experimental measurements is discussed. This is complicated by the fact that, because of the aspect sensitivity, it is not clear a priori what the per-pulse scattering volume actually is. In general, the correct normalization requires quantitative knowledge of the aspect sensitivity which may not be possible to determine because of fundamental limitations imposed by the spatial-resolution capability of the measurement system on the extent to which this property of the scattering medium can actually be determined. The identical problem exists in radio-auroral measurements. This problem is considered here, and an exact expression from which the desired per-unit-volume quantities of interest can be obtained from measurements is given. It is shown that proper choice of the experimental parameters leads to a simplification whereby the normalization can be carried out without knowledge of the aspect sensitivity being necessary. The results are applied to calculating from experimental data the per-unit-volume scattering properties of a heated ionospheric volume as a function of frequency, from which a transverse scale size for the scattering medium of 3 m is estimated. For these experiments, under maximum heating conditions, a representative value of 1% for the rms fractional electron density deviation is calculated; an upper bound is also established showing that values as large as 4 or 5% were probably never achieved. It is shown that, for an electron density distribution axially symmetric with respect to the geomagnetic field, B, the cross section for backscatter within a plane containing B uniquely determines the cross section for bistatic scattering axially around B. Experimental results for small axial-bistatic angles are presented showing good agreement between calculated and measured values."
"A phenomenological model of the enhanced airglow produced by the Department of Commerce ionospheric modification facility is presented. This model is based primarily on airglow data taken from two sites for triangulation. These data show that it is not necessary for the region in which RF power is deposited (interaction region) to be coincident with the region in which the modified airglow is emitted (excitation region). The two are coincident at altitudes below 280 ± 15 km; but, as the interaction region rises, the two may separate with the excitation region remaining at altitudes around 280 km. It is also shown that a non-Maxwellian energy distribution for electrons is generated by the transmitter. Further, using this model, we present estimates of the efficiency for converting the radio wave energy into energetic electrons. This can typically be 1%, although observations indicating efficiencies 10 to 15 times higher have been made. A variety of experimental data which are not clearly understood are also presented."
"The aspect sensitivity of man-made, field-aligned ionospheric irregularities implies that the geometry of VHF communications circuits using these scatterers must be carefully designed. The design problem is sufficiently complex that it is best approached with the aid of a computerized model. Examples are presented showing the results of path modeling for manmade clouds located in Colorado and in Italy. The effects of variations in cloud height and communications circuit frequency are evident from these examples. It is concluded that geometric restrictions are sufficiently strong as to limit the application of the technique to certain specialized point-to-point or point-to-zone uses."
"Scatter from man-made, field-aligned, F-layer irregularities offers a means of over-the-horizon communication at VHF frequencies. Experimental data collected in 44 days of field operation in the autumns of 1972 and 1973 defines representative characteristics of signals transmitted over such a scatter circuit. A cloud of field-aligned scatterers was created by the Platteville, Colorado, ionospheric modification facility; test transmitting sites were established in Texas and receiving sites in California. The data describe mean and peak cloud radar cross section, the dependence of cross section on heater power, heater modulation, time of day, and signal frequency, the circuit coherent and incoherent bandwidths, the signal amplitude statistics and spatial correlation, and the signal spectral spreading. The experiment also included the transmission of representative types of modulated signals including SSB voice, 100-word/min FSK teleprinter data, 2400-bit/sec data, 30-kHz FM voice, and 3-kHz FSK facsimile."
"During the past four years, experiments using high power, high frequency transmitters have demonstrated that significant modification of the F region of the ionosphere can be effected. This paper illustrates that relatively low power, creating power flux densities in the F region of the order of 1 μw m−2, can also produce significant modification in the ionosphere. Such low power illuminations create field-aligned ionization irregularities that produce a significant scattering cross section in the modified ionosphere. It permits propagation of VHF signals over selected long distance paths that could not be used by natural means."
"Enhancements of various features of the incoherent scatter spectrum are observed when the ionosphere is illuminated with powerful, high frequency radio waves. The radio waves excite plasma instabilities producing lines or more complex spectral features near the local plasma frequency, at the local ion acoustic frequency, near the local gyrofrequency, and near twice the gyrofrequency. The enhancements occur in a thin slab as observed by the incoherent scatter radar and at both upshifted and downshifted frequencies with respect to the probing radar frequency. The enhancements are observed to vary with time when the excitation is held constant and is turned on or off. The high power radio waves are produced by a 160 kw transmitter feeding a log-periodic pair of curtains mounted at the focus of the 1000-ft reflector and covering the frequency range from 5 to 12 MHz. The effects are observed with the incoherent scatter radar using the same reflector and with ionosondes and photometers. The frequencies of the enhanced plasma line and the ion line and their relation to the pump (high frequency radio wave) frequency are predictable from available parametric instability theory. Other spectral features are being explained as the theory develops with the help of the observations. There remain some discrepancies, in particular the asymmetries in intensity, width, and fluctuations of the upshifted compared to the downshifted plasma lines."
"In addition to the communication applications that stem from the generation of field-aligned irregularities, ionospheric heating by powerful HF waves also holds promise for establishing new techniques in D-, E-, and F-region aeronomy. This paper concentrates on the application of the theory of plasma heating by ohmic and nonlinear dissipation to the special conditions of the lower ionosphere where the electron collision and disturbing wave frequencies are comparable and the upper ionosphere where electron thermal transport is large and restricted by the earth's magnetic field. We predict the magnitude and distribution of large-scale changes in the electron temperature and density in both the D and F layers under a variety of conditions. These results are compared with direct measurements or inferred changes whenever possible. We also examine the effects of specular-height mismatch, multiple frequency operation involving heater-power sharing, and antenna beam tilt on the total cross section for field-aligned scattering. The analysis is based on the concept that the energy-density distribution on the heater reflectrix computed by means of a ray-tracing technique can be related directly to the density-fluctuation intensity through an appropriate scattering model. Lastly,∗ potential applications to aeronomy are discussed, particularly in regard to D-region measurements of the effective recombination coefficient magnitude and temperature dependence and the relative water cluster ion concentration."
"The short-scale (about 3 m), field-aligned plasma density striations found in ionospheric modification experiments are generated by the plasma turbulence resulting from ion acoustic-plasma wave parametric decay instabilities. The field-aligned geometry results from the fact that nonlinear wave coupling arises from thermal, ohmic heating terms rather than ponderomotive force (radiation pressure). The theory shows that field-aligned striations increase rapidly in intensity as the wavelength increases—in agreement with experiment."
"The threshold of the purely growing mode of stimulated Brillouin scattering is exceeded in ionospheric modification experiments for horizontal wave-lengths longer than about half a km. The “beat wavelength” along the field lines is a few km long and increases with decreasing height. The irregularities are therefore not purely field aligned initially although diffusion across the field lines could, over longer periods of time, produce purely field-aligned irregularities which persist after the heating transmitter is switched off."
"A field-aligned instability is found when intense radio waves undergo stimulated scattering off low frequency quasi-modes related to parallel diffusion. This instability may arise during ionospheric modification. The wavelength of the unstable field-aligned diffusion mode is between 75 and 200 m, in agreement with the experimental findings of Bowhill [1974], The growth time is at least a second, and the instability should extend over an altitude range on the order of 100 km."
"Simple physical arguments are used to estimate the downward-going energetic electron flux due to parametrically excited Langmuir waves in ionospheric modification experiments. The acceleration mechanism is a single velocity reversal as seen in the frame of the Langmuir wave. The flux is sufficient to produce the observed ionospheric airglow if focusing-type instabilities are invoked to produce moderate local enhancements of the pump field."
"A calculation is made of the acceleration of electrons during ionospheric modification experiments. The electrons are accelerated by Langmuir waves excited unstable by the parametric instability. This calculation results in an electron flux of about 109 cm−2 sec−1 for conditions over Boulder, and is sufficient to explain observations or airglow enhancements."
"This paper summarizes suggestions for future research in the modification of the ionosphere by high powered HF radio waves. The research areas discussed include both theoretical and experimental work to: (1) better define and explain known phenomena, (2) verify the existence and establish the properties of effects that have been tentatively observed, (3) discover new effects, and (4) develop applications of known phenomena to science and engineering."
"No abstract is available."
"The original Nançay-St. Santin incoherent scatter facility based on the radio astronomy antenna at Nançay and a CW transmitter located at St. Santin (300 km south) was improved in many ways between 1965 and 1970: doubling of the transmitted power to 140 kw, lowering of the receiver noise level down to 100 K, monitoring of the antenna and data acquisition through the use of a computer, rejection of the parasitic tropospheric echoes. However, the most important improvement brought to the system is the addition of two new receiving stations 100 km east and west of the transmitter. Each of the new stations is equipped with a three-beam Cassegrain antenna (25-m parabola) aimed to simultaneously intersect the vertical transmitted beam at three different heights. Both new receivers have wide band (38 MHz at 3 db) gaseous helium cooled parametric amplifiers and on-line computers. While one of the two new stations is equipped with filter banks for the purpose of spectral analysis, a different choice has been made for the other station. For the latter the data acquisition will imply multibit correlators, for both the ionic spectrum and plasma line measurements. Most of the improved electronic equipment designed for the new stations has also been implemented in the Nançay receiver. The frequency and time synchronization between the four sites is now accomplished by employing a single 5-MHz frequency standard in each station monitored by standard time and frequency signals from MSF and/ or HBG stations. The observation procedure consists of tilting the different receiving antennas so as to gather the signal scattered from the ionospheric vertical column illuminated by the transmitter. For calibration purposes a standard ionosonde is operating at St. Santin. The main objective of the quadristatic system is to determine completely the ion drift vector in order to study the electric fields and the neutral tidal winds. Other capabilities offered by the new system are a determination of the plasma line and a higher data acquisition rate. The first observations with one of the new stations were performed in December 1972."
"The UK incoherent scatter system operates in two modes. The monostatic pulsed system has been in operation since 1968, and a summary of the results obtained in this mode is given. The full multistatic CW system has been operating since September 1972 and among the preliminary results are measurements of the total vector of velocity drift."
"An observation scheme is described in which it is possible to measure the three velocity components of plasma drift in the ionosphere by using a single monostatic incoherent scatter facility with a steerable antenna. The scheme involves a least-mean-squares fitting of the line-of-sight velocity observed in several different directions to what one would compute from a given set of three orthogonal velocity components. The method is applied to data gathered at the Arecibo Observatory and is shown to be capable of providing velocity information with rms errors of better than 10 m sec−1 for all three components with a time resolution of 20 min."
"A new large incoherent scatter radar system has been proposed as the principal element in a binational center for studies of the upper atmosphere. The radar has been designed to yield a sensitivity comparable to the best now available and yet provide a latitude coverage of the F region of ±13°. The radar shall comprise a 100-m diameter parabolic reflector antenna that can be tilted in the magnetic meridian plane by ±85° from the zenith. This antenna will be coupled to a UHF pulse transmitter with a peak power of 10 Mw, and will serve for both transmitting and receiving. Two auxiliary fully steerable antennas will be located northeast and northwest of the main antenna and will also receive the signals. This will enable the velocity of the ion drift to be studied, permitting measurements of neutral winds, electric fields, and fluxes of ions into or from the magnetosphere. The auxiliary antennas will form 10 coplanar pencil beams, so that these drift measurements may be made at 10 heights simultaneously. The paper describes how the above concept was developed and the work of selecting a site for the radar. By locating the main station near L = 4, and the auxiliary stations about 550 km distant, it will be possible to measure the electric fields in the F region over the range 3 ≤ L ≤ 8 to an accuracy of ±2 mv m−1. Thus, the radar should be able to map the electric fields produced by substorms at auroral and subauroral latitudes. In addition, the properties of the ionosphere and many parameters of the atmosphere will be determined over the altitude range 100 to 1000 km."
"EISCAT is a project presented by scientists from Finland, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom for establishing a new incoherent scatter facility in the northern part of Scandinavia. The initial constraints and choices introduced by the scientific purpose of high latitude ionospheric studies are recalled and the general characteristics of the facility are described. The facility involves a multistatic system in the UHF range and a monostatic system in the VHF range. Troms⊘, Norway, at a geomagnetic latitude corresponding to L = 6.3 at the ground, is the main axis of the measurements. Remote stations are located at Kiruna, Sweden, and Sodankyla, Finland. Some design concepts related to the capabilities of pulse-coded modulation of a powerful UHF transmitter and others related to new types of receiving antennas are described. The expected performance of the facility is evaluated and compared with desirable performance criteria and with those of other existing or proposed facilities."
"The present understanding of the ionization processes, and of the positive and negative ion chemistry of the D region is reviewed with particular attention being given to outstanding problems. Rocket-borne mass spectrometer observations carried out in the past decade have shown that the change in positive ion composition with height (from NO+, O2+ and metallic ions above to water cluster ions H+· (H2O)n below) is a general feature of the D region at all latitudes and under all geophysical conditions. Furthermore, these observations indicate that this change occurs over a very small range of heights, between 82 and 86 km under normal conditions and at lower heights during auroral or Polar Cap Absorption conditions. These results are discussed in terms of current ideas concerning the formation of water cluster ions from O2+ and NO+ ions. Mass spectrometer observations by two experimental groups have provided conflicting results concerning the negative ion composition in the D region and cannot be used to test theoretical models. Such models have been derived from laboratory measurements, and involve reaction schemes leading from O2− ions, formed by electron attachment, to ions O3−, O4−, CO3−, CO4−, NO2− and NO3−. The effect on these models of including recent laboratory measurements of negative ion hydration is considered, and the importance of photodetachment is also mentioned."
"This paper reviews the ground-based and rocket techniques that are presently being used to determine electron density profiles in the ionospheric D region. Ground-based techniques include VLF, LF, and MF sounding, differential absorption and differential phase using partial reflections, wave interaction, and incoherent scatter. Rocket techniques include differential absorption and Faraday rotation in association with high-resolution dc probes calibrated by means of the radio measurements. The characteristics of the aforementioned techniques are presented, including time and height resolution, accuracy estimates, preferred height ranges, and problems encountered. Electron density profiles obtained with these techniques are presented for comparable solar zenith angles and undisturbed solar and geophysical conditions, and variances are described."
"D-region electron densities have been measured with a height resolution of less than 1 km using the incoherent scatter technique with coded pulses. Using a theoretical production model and the measured densities, recombination coefficients were computed for the altitude range from 80 to 95 km. The effective recombination coefficient decreases across the D-region ledge from a value of about 2 × 10−5 cm3 sec−1 below the ledge to a value of the order of 1 to 5 × 10−7 above. The change is presumably due to a transition from water cluster ions to the molecular ions NO+ and O2+."
"A review of physical and chemical processes in the E region is given with emphasis on the absolute ionization balance and relative ion composition. The importance of transport processes in the nighttime E region is emphasized. It is concluded that the electron, ion, and neutral gases are in thermal equilibrium."
"The problems of measuring reliable E-region electron density vs. height profiles with a vertically pointing, pulsed incoherent scatter radar are discussed, and profiles from heights of 90 km upward observed at Malvern are presented. The minimum above hmazE is more pronounced in winter than in summer, and the overall average density in the minimum is 92% of NmaxE. From the observational point of view profiles showing an unresolved sporadic-E layer seem merely to be an extreme case of the normal type. Many layers are present in the E region at night; the behavior of these is erratic except for the principal layer centered just below 100 km, which may be meteoritic in origin. Incoherent scatter offers a new method of investigating the effects of solar flares in the 100 to 130 km range; observations taken during a flare, and also during a partial solar eclipse and on a magnetically disturbed day, are described."
"Using 13-bit Barker-coded pulses, high resolution (0.9 km) incoherent scatter measurements of nighttime E- and F-region electron densities have been conducted at Arecibo. Electron density profile sequences are presented for four nights characterized by a wide range of magnetic activity. The data show a deep valley in electron density above 120 km during quiet periods which fills in with plasma to levels of 104 cm−3 during a magnetic storm (Kp $\\simeq$ 8). An intermediate layer frequently appears near 125 km, independently of magnetic activity. In view of the observations, the connection between nighttime valley content and magnetic activity is discussed."
"This paper outlines some of the currently outstanding problems of F region theory. It is suggested that a basic understanding of F region storm phenomena now exists, and an outline description of the main processes operating at middle and low latitudes during storms is given."
"Temperature and ion composition results obtained during the eclipse of 7 March 1970 at Millstone Hill are presented. The temperature variations appear to be controlled by the high degree of magnetic activity present on the eclipse day. Ion composition variations may be explained in terms of photochemical processes and the distribution of ionizing radiation across the solar disk. The data indicate the quality of ion composition determination by incoherent scatter radar, and it is concluded that these data are more useful when averaged in quantity to determine diurnal, seasonal, and solar cycle variations rather than short-term temporal variations on a given day."
"Incoherent scatter observations at Millstone Hill were made during the importance 3B solar flare which occurred at 15:00 UT on 7 August 1972. Measurements were obtained of the electron density profile over the height range 125 to 1200 km, together with observations of the electron temperature, ion temperature, and vertical drift velociy above 225 km. The Ne(h) results showed electron density enhancements of nearly 100% at 125 km and 60% at 200 km; N, enhancements were also observed throughout the topside, with the percentage enhancement increasing with height above 400 km. The total electron content up to 1200 km showed an increase of 3.8 × 1016 el m−2 ($\\simeq$30%). The temperature and drift data represent the first Thomson scatter measurements of these parameters during flare conditions. While the electron temperature results showed substantial increases at all altitudes examined, the ion temperatures were only slightly perturbed. The drift data provided the most interesting results. In response to the flare, a dramatic upward surge was observed in which the drifts increased nearly linearly with height over the height range 300 to 750 km. In discussing the overall results obtained during this event, estimates are made of the flare-induced electrodynamic and thermal processes which contribute to the observed effects."
"Night airglow 6300 A intensities and electron density altitude profiles observed at Arecibo have been combined with dissociative recombination theory to obtain information about the nighttime variation of F-region N2 and 02 densities. The application of this technique is illustrated using data from two nights in March 1971. The gross nighttime variation shows reasonable similarity to the Jacchia [1970] model, and also follows the time variation of the measured exospheric temperature. However, on both nights there is evidence of a postmidnight enhancement of the O2/N2 density ratio associated with a rapid decrease in the height of the F layer."
"Recent measurements are presented of F-region ion drifts made at Arecibo using a new continuous beamswinging technique. The measurements are applied to the question of the origin of the F-region electric field over Arecibo. It is shown that the daytime electric fields are probably caused by F-region tidal winds, while the nighttime electric fields appear to be generated in the F region itself by thermospheric winds."
"Vertical drift measurements in the topside F region at midlatiudes have confirmed the importance of dynamical processes, but it has been difficult isolating those processes due to E × B drifts from those due to neutral winds. To remove this ambiguity three-dimensional drift measurements were made at Millstone Hill Observatory with the steerable L-band radar in conjunction with the vertical UHF antenna. The geometry of the experiment is discussed and daytime drifts are presented. Unusual lifting of the F-layer peak was observed on two occasions. A reversal in the deduced meridional neutral wind is observed in one case and an enhanced eastward electric field in the other."
"Observational results on the density in the thermosphere and lower exosphere, i.e., within the altitude range from about 150 to about 1000 km, are discussed in this paper. Most observational results on total gas density were obtained from orbital drag and more recently also from in-situ drag analysis. The primary parameter measured is atmospheric density with temperature as a secondary structural parameter deduced with the help of theory and/or atmospheric models. Both the merits and shortcomings of the drag analysis method are outlined in view of a comparison of temperature deduced from total density and kinetic gas temperature measured by incoherent scatter. Recent improvements of our knowledge of the known density variations are presented."
"Incoherent scatter radar measurements gathered since 1969 at Millstone Hill (42.6°N, 71.5°W) are used to study the seasonal variations of the neutral gas temperature, composition and wind velocity in the thermosphere. Between 110 and 120 km, the mean temperature is found to oscillate with a 20 K annual amplitude, 10 K semiannual amplitude, and maxima in July; the mean density oscillates with an annual amplitude of 13% of the mean and a semiannual amplitude of 6% of the mean with maxima in November. Similarly, the mean daily exospheric temperature possesses a 100 K amplitude variation with a maximum in summer; the semiannual component is only about 10 K. Moreover, a weak winter maximum characterizes the neutral density at 400 km, and the neutral wind at 300 km is found to blow northward for a longer period during the day in winter than in summer. The amplitude and phase of the daily semidiurnal tides in the lower thermosphere do not vary systematically with season but a large variability is observed from day to day, particularly in the phase of the oscillation during winter. In contrast, the semidiurnal harmonic of the exospheric temperature varies seasonally in amplitude and phase and reflects the controlling influence of the length of the day on the shape of the daily temperature oscillation. In the middle thermosphere, the neutral composition ratio O/N2 is larger in winter than summer, with a rapid transition at the equinox."
"A spectral analysis has been performed on the exospheric temperature derived from incoherent scatter data gathered at St. Santin for two unusually long observation campaigns. It is found that the main components of the oscillations are diurnal and semidiurnal, with amplitudes of respectively 10 and 2.5% of the steady component. Based on this evidence the bulk of the data, corresponding to 84 shorter experiments of only about 40 hr, has been Fourier-analyzed in terms of the abovementioned components. The long-term variations of the characteristics of each steady state and of the oscillation components are then analyzed and their implications for the temperature structure are discussed."
"The OGO-6 6300 Å airglow temperature measurements have been used to develop models of the global temperature distributions under solstice and equinox conditions for the altitude region from 240 to 300 km and for times ranging from dawn in this altitude region to shortly after sunset. The distributions are compared with models derived from satellite orbital decay and incoherent scatter sounding. The seasonal variation of the temperature as a function of latitude is shown to be very different from that derived from static diffusion models with constant boundary conditions."
"A photochemical model of the F1 region was set up from rocket-borne mass spectrometric measurements of the ionic and neutral composition, and from reaction rates determined in laboratory experiments. This model was applied to determine the seasonal variations of the neutral composition in the lower thermosphere from incoherent scatter ionic composition data. We find an atomic oxygen winter maximum, in agreement with satellite drag and energy balance studies. Moreover, we put in evidence a molecular oxygen winter minimum, which confirms results obtained from Lyman-α absorption measurements on O2, and from twilight 6300 Å airglow studies."
"The eigenfunctions of the atmosphere (the Hough functions within the lower atmosphere below about 100 km) change their structure and their propagation characteristics within the thermosphere due to dissipation effects such as heat conduction, viscosity, and ion drag. Wave dissipation can be parameterized to a first-order approximation by a complex frequency, the imaginary term of which simulates an effective ion drag force. It is shown how the equivalent depth, the attenuation, and the vertical wavelength of the predominant symmetric diurnal tidal modes change with height as functions of effective ion drag. The boundary conditions of tidal waves are discussed, and asymptotic solutions for the wave parameters like pressure, density, temperature, and wind generated by a heat input proportional to the mean pressure are given. Finally, diffusion effects upon the minor constituents within the thermosphere are described."
"Incoherent scatter data gathered at St. Santin yield a determination of the ionic (neutral) temperature in the F1 region. Although large uncertainties are present in these data, a study of their short-term variations is possible provided they have been statistically combined in typical periods. It is shown that waves of tidal type are present in the lower thermosphere, with dominant periods of 24 and 12 hr. Seasonal variations are found in good agreement with exospheric temperature observations. Comparisons of experimental results with relevant theoretical works show a rather good general agreement. As concerns the semidiurnal component, Lindzen and Hong's work shows the possible presence of two modes in the thermosphere: a trapped mode generated in situ, and a propagating one generated below 100 km; however, experimental results suggest a rapid damping of the propagating mode above 180 km, while the in-situ excited mode dominates."
"The meridional neutral wind values estimated over St. Santin (44°65'N, 2°19,E, geographic) from incoherent scatter observations, during the years 1971 and 1972, have been analyzed in terms of Fourier components in the whole thermospheric altitude range. Seasonal averages of the height structure of amplitude and phase for each harmonic term are presented and compared with relevant theoretical predictions. The high thermosphere results exhibit clear annual and semiannual effects and the steady meridional wind is found to depend on magnetic activity and solar flux. The discussion of the experimental results, in connection with predictions of the tidal theory, suggests future work in this field which is outlined in the conclusion."
"The main characteristics of the atmospheric tides observed at St. Santin and Garchy are examined and compared. It is found that the semidiurnal tide is very variable in the meteoric range (80 to 100 km) and more regular above. Some direct comparisons, corresponding to simultaneous measurements, show the same features and exhibit a good agreement in the region where the two types of measurements overlap."
"Ionospheric plasma vertical drifts measured by the Millstone Hill incoherent scatter radar are decomposed into estimates of meridional neutral particle motion by accounting for ion diffusion and semidiurnal electric fields. For two equinoctial days with relatively high F-region electron densities the resulting neutral circulation at 300 km is composed of equatorward winds of 100 to 150 m sec−1 at night and poleward winds of 25 to 50 m sec−1 during the day. Harmonic analysis of the wind pattern yields a diurnal northward component of 80 to 100 m sec−1 with a maximum near noon, a semidiurnal component of 35 m sec−1 at 0600 LT and a prevailing southward wind of about 20 m sec−1. The observations are compared with tidal theory predictions and are interpreted by means of a simplified integration of the horizontal equations of motion through which effects of zonal advection, ion drag, viscosity, and pressure gradients are studied. Although the observed wind pattern is consistent in general with that derived from global models based on satellite drag observations, various dicrep-ancies concerning the amplitude and phase of the diurnal bulge are noted and discussed."
"The results of simultaneous thermospheric neutral wind and ionization drift measurements from near College, Alaska (L = 5.6, Λ = 65°) are presented. The neutral wind data were obtained by observing the Doppler shift of the 6300 Å atomic oxygen line with the 15-cm Fabry-Perot interferometer of the Michigan Airglow Observatory which is located temporarily at Ester Dome, Alaska. Ionization drifts were measured by the Chatanika incoherent scatter radar facility. These simultaneous measurements indicate that in the premidnight sector both the neutral wind and the ionization drift are generally westward. This westward ionization drift is consistent with the general magnetospheric convection pattern but the measured neutral wind is in a direction opposite to the diurnal pressure gradients and thus must be driven by ion drag. In the postmidnight sector the ionization drift turns eastward while the neutral wind direction turns south. Again, the ion drift is consistent with previously published results; the reasons for the absence of significant zonal neutral winds and the significant southward meridional wind in the postmidnight sector are not well understood at this time, but are probably a combination of a decrease in the ion drag force following magnetic midnight, Coriolis force, and pressure gradients due to both the diurnal and auroral heat sources."
"Our present understanding of auroral morphology has been developed in a large part from a vast accumulation of all-sky camera photographs taken at many stations around the world. In order to further our understanding of the concepts of the auroral oval and the auroral substorm and their relation to influences on our atmosphere, we now need to express these concepts in terms of the latitudinal distribution of the type and energy of the associated incident particles. In this review, data are presented on precipitating particles in the evening and midnight sectors in relationship to the electron trapping boundary motion within the substorm. The complex height distribution of ionization associated with particle precipitation shows some of the possible complexities in the interpretation of incoherent scatter radar data obtained in the auroral regions. Data obtained by modem satellite imagery can provide the auxiliary data needed to understand the particle effects in the polar regions. The rapid temporal and spatial changes in the aurora are seen in data from rapid scanning photometer systems and high sensitivity color television systems. The general review of these data attempts to show that local auroral dynamics and the phase and global extent of the auroral substorm imply drastic changes in the incident particle energies. These in turn produce variable atmospheric effects of direct concern to all incoherent scatter radar studies of the neutral and ion composition, temperature, and motion of the earth's atmosphere."
"The purpose of this paper is to present some incoherent scatter radar observations of high latitude D-region ionization profiles during auroral disturbances and during the great magnetic storm of August 1972. Simultaneous 30-MHz riometer and magnetometer data from the College, Alaska area and IMP-5 and −6 satellite data are utilized to interpret the ionization profiles."
"The L-band incoherent scatter radar located at Chatanika, Alaska (L $\\simeq$ 5.6) has been used to measure the characteristics of the auroral E layer. In this paper, the term auroral E layer refers to nighttime ionization between altitudes of 90 to 150 km produced by particle precipitation. Electron density profiles have been measured using time resolutions as short as 0.2 sec and range resolutions of 5 to 10 km. For the shortest integration time, the statistical accuracy of the measurement is on the order of 10%. Results obtained to date show auroral ionization to align with the earth's magnetic field and to have lengths along the field of typically 20 to 30 km and thicknesses across the field of less than 5 km (both distances measured between the half-peak-density points). Within the auroral ionization, the maximum electron density at times approaches 2 × 106 el cm−3. The measured quantities have been analyzed to deduce (a) energy of the particle precipitation, (b) flux of particle precipitation, (c) production rates, and (d) effective recombination coefficients. For a few cases, estimates of the pitch-angle distribution of the primary electrons have been made."
"Microwave radiometer measurements were conducted from a railroad bridge which spans the Cape Cod Canal in Massachusetts. Data were collected as a function of viewing angle and polarization at frequencies of 1.4, 4.0, and 7.5 GHz. The results compare differences in the microwave emmissivity of a smooth vs. rough water surface. Results are also given which show the effects of roughness on the bistatic scattering of sunlight."
"Many recent measurements of photochemical rate constants and atmospheric ion composition have changed our understanding of D-region sunrise processes. In this paper several new sunrise mechanisms are suggested in the light of the recent data. It is concluded that very stable hydrated negative ions will probably be converted by chemical reaction at sunrise into less stable hydrates which can be photodetached."
"In this paper full-wave calculations are described to investigate the propagation of MF radio waves in the range from 255 to 950 kHz in the lower ionosphere. The method of investigation makes use of matrix multiplications with the ionosphere divided into homogeneous layers of 100-m thickness. The model calculations provide conclusions from MF pulse sounding results on electron density and collision frequency profiles in the height interval from 50 to 100 km. The diurnal variation of electron density in the lower ionosphere is presented. Reflections observed from heights of about 75 and 87 km during the day are shown to be produced by steep gradients of electron density."
"Electron density profiles derived from ionograms have limited accuracy due to technical and natural reasons. In the following we show how corrections and error estimates can be obtained on the basis of the propagation theory of radio waves and the general knowledge of the ionospheric structure."
"Modifications were made to the global scintillation model that was developed by Fremouw (Stanford Research Institute), to better represent recent high latitude scintillation data. These modifications were made primarily in the high latitude term of the model and include a provision for variation in the position of the scintillation boundary with respect to magnetic activity. The resulting model is compared with published curves of scintillation activity with respect to latitude and is found to produce a considerably better agreement with those curves than the original model. A modification of the model is made to represent the finding that the northern and southern polar regions of the scintillation activity are not symmetrical with respect to each other."
"Our understanding of wave particle interactions in the magnetosphere has progressed to the point where it may be possible to stimulate wave amplification at ULF (about 0.1 to 10 Hz) by disturbing the cyclotron resonance conditions through catalytic injections of plasma clouds or particle beams. Modification of the interaction can be achieved by the introduction of localized clouds of plasma that reduce the phase velocity of the waves and cause enhanced amplification by lowering the resonance velocity. Alternatively, direct injection of hot energetic particle beams can also appreciably alter the local amplification characteristics. Different methods for injecting clouds of lithium plasma and proton beams have been modeled quantitatively to assess their relative merits. Amplifications of many tens of decibels appear to be feasible with lithium clouds of only 1 to 2 kg of material. With present technology the beam diameter from a conventional particle gun on board a satellite or rocket is too small for an effective interaction, but appreciable amplification is indicated. Such a prospect has great significance. First, it offers a direct test of the fundamental physical processes that are believed to control the state of the magnetosphere. Second, controlled injections might be used to stimulate artificial amplification of ULF emissions on command and allow them to be used as a wide-area communication system."
"The radiation field patterns of an ion acoustic wave from a circular disk-shaped antenna is controlled by applying a bias voltage to another mesh. The change Of the radiation patterns is explained as a result of the in-phase reflection of an ion acoustic wave at an electron-rich sheath."
"The wave number, the distribution of current, and the admittance of a horizontal wire antenna over a homogeneous isotropic half space are determined when the complex wave number characteristic of the half space is large in magnitude compared with the real wave number of the air. The axial electric field at the surface of the half space is described. The properties of the antenna are obtained from those of the eccentrically insulated dipole in a general medium in the limit as the radius of the insulation is increased without limit while the distance of the dipole from the boundary is kept constant. Application of the new theory to the Beverage or wave antenna is discussed."
"The theory and operation of a Gerdien condenser in a collision-controlled regime is reviewed. Its operation under supersonic flow conditions is then presented and the results of calibration of the instrument in a wind tunnel are discussed. The theory of mobility is reviewed and the importance of a mean-free-path or mean-free-time model between ion-neutral collisions is discussed. Experimental positive ion mobility data are presented and compared with the data of Rose and Widdel [1972] and the extrapolated values of small ion laboratory results. The assumption of chemically frozen flow is then considered concerning the equilibrium distribution of the water cluster ions and their temperature-dependent decomposition rates. It is shown for flow at Mach 3 that when the shock is detached the dominant cluster ions are not frozen. However, when the shock is swallowed the H+(H2O)3 ion is frozen at all altitudes above 40 km and the H+(H2O)4 ion is frozen above 65 km. The predicted mobility of the dominant positive ions, i.e., H+(H2O)3 and H+(H2O)4, based on a mobility dispersion curve for nitrogen, is compared with experimental data. Positive ion density data are presented for four rocket flights during a PCA and one flight during an auroral absorption event. Finally, positive ion loss rates are shown based on the positive ion measurements and proton flux data obtained from rockets and satellites."
"We consider a wedge geometry for a model of a nonuniform layered earth. The plane wave spectrum of a line source excitation is allowed to reflect successively at the nonparallel interfaces. The semiconvergent series is truncated when the lowermost image term has been accounted for. The partial sum, so obtained, is considered to give a useful approximation to the resultant fields. It is found that there is a significant dependence on the tilt angle of the subsurface interface."
"Recent development in the optical scintillation theory has been adapted to the ionospheric geometry in order to study the ionospheric scintillation phenomenon in the presence of multiple scattering. Under approximations well satisfied in typical ionospheres for a frequency above about 20 MHz, the first through fourth moment equations have been derived and some analytic solutions given. The fourth moment equation has also been solved numerically. The numerical results show clearly the occurrence of focussing and saturation phenomena. In this paper the new multiple-scatter effects are emphasized."
"A systematic, thick refraction medium approach to calculating ionospheric radar refractive effects by means of propagation-related integrals yields equations valid to second order in the tangent of the propagation angle with respect to the straight line between source and target. Significant differences are found from more intuitive developments currently used. When more than one propagation path exists between source and target, alternate propagation paths cannot be located reliably by the propagation integral method. However, inclusion of the higher-order terms responsible for the alternate solutions does significantly improve the accuracy of the primary path solution when those terms can be estimated accurately in a strong refraction situation."
"A previously reported method of application of ionospheric predictions to HF propagation in three dimensions is employed for an investigation of the monthly mean predicted behavior of the azimuthal angle of arrival of HF signals during the sunrise period for a medium range, midlatitude path oriented 27° east from north. A comparison of the prediction model results with experimental data collected over a five-day period each month for twelve months shows that the use of the prediction model offers a significant overall improvement in reducing the errors due to the azimuthal angle-of-arrival deviations from the great circle azimuth. The factors contributing to the discrepancies between the prediction model results and experimental observations are examined."
"The waveforms radiated by linear antennas loaded nonuniformly and continuously with resistance are investigated analytically. The antennas considered are symmetrical and excited at the centers by slice generators having a Gaussian pulse type of time dependence. Closed form expressions are developed for the far-field waveforms produced by such antennas in any direction. The analytical results are compared with those obtained by direct numerical means."
"The time dependence is calculated of the radiated field from a resistively loaded, tubular antenna excited by a step-function voltage across a circumferential delta gap. The resistive loading along the antenna is taken to be uniform and independent of frequency. Analytical expressions for the early-time and late-time behavior of the far field are derived. For intermediate time intervals the field is evaluated numerically. It is found that the late-time behavior of the radiation field is inversely proportional to time squared, whereas, in the case of zero resistance it varies in inverse proportion to the logarithm of time."
"No abstract is available."
"During several months in 1970 and 1971 the characteristics of a diversity satellite-to-ground communication link were measured using the ATS-5 15.3 GHz downlink. These data were gathered at two ground receiving terminals spaced 4 km apart during 1970 and 8 km apart during 1971 in the vicinity of Columbus, Ohio. These data have subsequently been analyzed to determine the improvement in link performance resulting from the use of space-diversity. The results of this analysis have shown that substantial improvements in link performance may be gained through the use of space-diversity on satellite-to-ground paths. For example, the durations of fades having depths exceeding 10 db were reduced by more than two orders of magnitude for both the 4 and 8 km site separation distances."
"Ray paths of VLF waves that propagate inside the magnetosphere are studied. The model of the magnetosphere is composed of electrons and ions, and includes latitudinal gradients of composition; the propagation is treated on the magnetic meridian. It is found that the presence of ions together with the latitudinal gradients generate ray paths with very peculiar features. The paths of the rays are combinations of trajectories influenced by the gradients of composition, magnetic reflections (ion effect), and reflections at the steep gradients of the plasmapause. The related whistler study provides an alternative explanation of several properties of whistler trains, without the use of field-aligned ducts of enhanced ionization."
"The propagation of waves in a hot magnetoplasma near gyroharmonics is studied by means of analytical ray tracing. To get the parametric equations of the paths a dispersion relation is first obtained through the electrostatic hypothesis and some mathematical approximations. For this case, it is shown that, except near reflection, waves transmitted from an ionospheric sounder travel almost along the static magnetic field and that the gradient of the magnetic field may be responsible for their reflection back to the spacecraft antenna. In certain cases two distinct trajectories can simultaneously intersect the receiving antenna thus giving rise to beats which are sometimes observed experimentally. The theoretical formulas are applied to a 3fH resonance."
"The theory of pulse compression systems for extended precipitation targets is reviewed referring specifically to a 13:1 phase-coded compression system currently in use. The expected loss in sensitivity of a factor b, the compression ratio, is obtained compared with b2, obtained by transmitting shorter pulses. The effects of the range sidelobes in smoothing out steep gradients of reflectivity are examined. It is concluded that they are serious but not prohibitive."
"The thin-wire circular-loop antenna with a distributed impedance loading is analyzed by a simple extension of the Fourier series solution for the perfectly conducting loop antenna. When the loading is a uniform resistance per unit length, the solution obtained is that for the imperfectly conducting loop. The broadband characteristics of the imperfectly conducting loop are examined. Impedances calculated by the Fourier series method are compared with those calculated by Lin [1973] using numerical and differential equation methods. In addition, the effects of the resistive loading on the radiating efficiency and the far-zone field pattern are investigated."
"Approximate far-field, backscattering transient responses are shown for three ice-sphere sizes. Signal ringing continues for a longer time, but the effective transient decay time is less than a space-equivalent time of six diameters. Glory, axial, and stationary rays in combination with an internal surface wave of one cut are the principal contributors to the scattering by ice, but the dipole must be included for small electrical sizes."
"This paper deals with the response of a stratified cold plasma to an infinite plane impulsive electromagnetic wave incident vertically on the ionization. The impulse response is found by utilizing a multiple-scattering technique, by summing a large number of scalar functions described as first scatter, second scatter, etc. A multiple-scattering integral is derived for finding the nth scattered field in terms of the (n-1)th scattered field. Also, a partial differential equation for the impulse response is derived using the multiple-scattering technique. Its solution is found for an impulsive wave incident on a half-space of uniform electron density, and on an infinite region whose electron density increases exponentially with height."
"This paper deals with the response of a stratified cold plasma to an infinite plane electromagnetic wave incident vertically on the ionization. The transient response is found by utilizing a multiple-scattering technique, by summing a large number of scalar functions described as first scatter, second scatter, etc. A generalized formula is used for finding the nth scattered field in terms of the (n — 1)th scattered field. Specifically two cases are considered: the generalized response of a half-space of uniform electron density to any incident wave expressible in a Maclaurin series, and the response of an infinite region whose electron density increases exponentially with height to an incident step-modulated sine wave."
"The effect of a perfectly conducting prolate spheroid on the surface fields of a buried vertical magnetic dipole is examined in the quasi-static case. When the spheroid is in the vicinity of the source and near the surface, the errors introduced in source location can be significant. The results have possible application to rescue operations following coal mine disasters and in similar situations."
"An experiment to determine the rotation of linearly polarized millimeter waves by rain is described; the results obtained at a frequency of 30.9 GHz, over a 2.6-km propagation path in New Jersey, during the spring-fall period of 1971, are discussed. Cumulative distributions of rain-induced rotation of the vertically polarized electric vector, and of the associated cross-polarized component are presented. The polarization rotation shows a strong relationship with the cross-path wind. For 0.01% of the time, during the measuring period, the rotation of the electric vector exceeds four degrees, equivalent to a cross component down 23 dB; for 0.001% of the measuring period, the latter value was about 18 dB."
"The vertical distribution of the field radiated by a microwave transmitter in the proximity of a smooth earth is obtained by direct application of Huygens' principle. For points at either side of the horizon and on the horizon itself this new approach offers uniform results which are free from the interpolations which characterize the methods currently used."
"The possible use of multiple wavelength radar systems to determine raindrop size distributions is examined. Pairs of radars at 1, 3, and 10 cm, respectively, are considered; the method involves measurements of rain reflectivities at two wavelength and at two range intervals separated by about one km. Assuming a general exponential form for the drop distribution, equations are derived relating the distribution parameters to the measurements. From these analytical forms the sensitivities of these parameters to radar inaccuracies are examined. The results show that one needs combined 2-radar accuracies of 1 dB to get even marginal drop distribution accuracies. Such accuracies are considered impractical at present. Other impractical constraints implicit in the results are the assumed uniformity of reflectivity over distances of approximately 1 km, and the requirement to average as many as 104 independent power samples."
"The microwave brightness of heterogeneous materials is decreased by internal scattering. This study, based upon radiative transfer theory, shows that for low loss media darkening can be many tens of degrees, that the effect is greater for materials of lower dielectric constant, that darkening depends upon the dominance of scattering over absorption, that volume scattering tends to mask a temperature gradient, that darkening is slightly greater for V-than for H-polarized radiation, and that darkening increases slightly with view angle. For isotropic scattering, the analysis yields the brightness temperature as a function of the scattering albedo, the complex dielectric constant, thermal temperature, and the temperature gradient."
"Electron density profiles of the auroral zone ionosphere for quiet, aurorally disturbed, and magnetic storm conditions have been obtained by the Chatanika incoherent scattar radar (magnetic latitude 65.7°, L = 5.7). The magnetically disturbed F region is found to be reduced somewhat in maximum density and greatly modified in shape during daylight. Field-aligned ion transport caused by neutral winds is suggested as the cause of this behavior. The maximum density in the disturbed, dark ionosphere usually occurs in the auroral E layer, a thick layer with typical densities of 2 to 5 × 1011e m−3 extending for several degrees of latitude. The auroral F layer has typical maximum densities of 0.5 to 2.0 × 1011e m−3 at 300 to 400 km altitude; upward transport and secondary ionization by soft auroral primaries are suggested as the cause of the auroral F layer. During quiet periods between May and September, the high latitude F1 layer exists as a well-defined thick layer, sometimes with a distinct valley between it and the F2 layer. In addition to high D-region absorption accompanying disturbances, the observed high variability of the E and F regions can explain much of the behavior of transauroral HF propagation that has been noted by past studies. This paper reviews recent incoherent scatter results with regard to their implications to high latitude HF propagation. In particular, the importance of Joule heating effects on the F-region atmosphere are discussed in terms of their effect on the F layer. A few clear cases of spread-F in the College ionograms have been found for times when the radar was observing near the ionosonde zenith. In all of the cases found, the maximum density of the layer corresponded to the inner edge of the spread trace; current scaling practice therefore appears to be correct."
"Observations of pulse-stimulated transient effects on the behavior of received signals were made during a portion of a rocket-borne RF sounder flight. These consisted of the amplitude modulation (often severe) of various ground-based broadcasts which were received. Their occurrence was synchronous with the sounder pulses and dependent (at least qualitatively) upon the relationship between the broadcast frequency and the local plasma resonant frequencies. The exact nature of the physical processes which cause the modulation is unknown, but could lie in the modification of the sheath-controlled antenna impedance by the pulse. The possibility that such modulations are present in experiments may be important in terms of explaining other observations and in rectifying misinterpretations."
"The radiation pattern of an open-ended circular cylindrical waveguide (excited in the circular symmetric TE01 or TM01 modes) in a plasma column having a central conductor is studied. The field distribution at the open-end cross section of the waveguide is assumed to be equivalent to the vector sum of current rings of various radii ranging from the outer radius of the central conductor to the inner radius of the circular waveguide at the open end. The radiation pattern is obtained as a vector sum of field components due to individual rings of current. This type of configuration gives rise to an enhanced radiation peak near and before the critical angle. The amplitude and sharpness of the radiation peak depends upon the dimensions of the plasma column, central conductor and the waveguide. The direction of the radiation peak can be changed by changing the plasma density. These results suggest development of an electronically scannable plasma antenna system."
"Two representations for the current on an isolated antenna in an arbitrary, homogeneous, isotropic medium have been obtained. These are the polynomial and the trigonometric forms, each with an exponential multiplier. The representations are used for solving coupled integral equations for two antennas in a dissipative medium. Measurements made over a wide range of the parameters of the medium, antenna lengths, and separations (in the case of coupled antennas) indicate a close agreement between the computed and observed values for the admittance and the current and charge distributions for isolated as well as coupled antennas."
"A normalized Poynting vector impulse response approximation evaluated computationally at selected points within and near an ice sphere is used to show that the actual physical processes in diffraction of plane waves are consistent with high frequency analogs proposed previously. Failure of the low frequency pulse components to satisfy Snell's law of refraction leads to differences in a detailed description of scattering by an ice sphere."
"An X-band radar designed and built by the Naval Research Laboratory and capable of continuously variable transmitted pulse durations down to 1 nsec is being flown on a NASA Wallops Flight Center C-54 aircraft to investigate the interaction of radar altimeter signals with the sea surface. There is good agreement between the observed radar altimeter leading edge rise time for a 1-nsec transmitted pulse and the rise time predicted from the radar parameters and the sea state determined by a laser profilometer. Using a threshold tracker on 29-pulse averages for a transmitted pulse of 24 nsec, we found that the range noise varied linearly with the power level of the threshold over a considerable range. The altimeter range quantization was 9.35 cm and a minimum range noise of 3.9 cm was obtained. A comparison of pulse-to-pulse correlation observed in the radar data with that predicted by a Monte Carlo simulation is used to obtain a measure of sea surface scatterer motion."
"Spherical wave weak-scattering propagation theory is employed to show that the resolution of multifrequency atmospheric probing techniques is limited to inhomogeneity scale sizes that are larger than a certain cutoff scale size lc. The magnitude of lc depends on the frequency separation and the path geometry. Inhomogeneities smaller than lc cannot be resolved and inevitably contribute to measurement errors. Propagation experiments performed at radio and acoustic wavelengths confirm the existence of the predicted cutoff and are in good agreement with the theory. An example is given to illustrate how this cutoff limits the ultimate accuracy of a radio-optical comparison measurement aimed at determining path-averaged water vapor variations."
"The results of the dispersion analysis of the spaced receiver records of fading for an equatorial station in the Indian zone are discussed. It is shown that the apparent drift speed increases almost linearly with the frequency of fading in all the cases studied for both the E and F regions. The dispersion of drift speed is larger for the F region than for the E region in general. Furthermore, the F region shows a larger dispersion during the daytime whereas it is of the same order in the day and nighttimes for the E region. The drift speed corresponding to the highest Fourier frequency present in a particular record is found to be close to the apparent drift speed Va as determined from the shift of the peak of cross correllograms while the total frequency spread of the speed is linearly related to the random drift speed Vc derived by the full correlation analysis. Several possible causes of dispersion in the ionosphere such as gravity waves, independently moving reflecting screens, height gradient of the horizontal drift and size of irregularities, the dispersive nature of the vertical drift velocity, and the variability of the drift during the course of record are discussed. Interference of the signals reflected from two or more highly aspect-sensitive areas in the ionosphere is suggested as a possible mechanism resulting in the positive and linear dispersion observed on the ground at an equatorial station."
"Tests are performed over a 4300-km path to determine the accuracy of reverse path loss estimates using the step-frequency sounder of the Navy Tactical Sounder System. The objective is to develop computational techniques for real-time estimates of communication channel performance. Experimental results are presented which indicate the statistical performance of several path loss estimation techniques. It is concluded that, for Navy applications, reverse path loss can he predicted to within 6 db for 90% of the time."
"The effect of the daily variability of foF2 and hmF2 on the propagation conditions of an HF communication circuit has been studied in an empirical manner. The daily variability of foF2 and hmF2 was determined by a detailed statistical analysis and the results were incorporated into a three-dimensional ionospheric model and ray-tracing program. During hours surrounding local noon, the relative day-to-day changes seen in both foF2 and hmF2 are comparable while at all other times the daily variability of foF2 substantially exceeds that of hmF2. In terms of HF propagation changes resulting from these changes in foF2 and hmF2, it can be concluded that a knowledge of the critical frequency of the F2 region is much more important than that of hmF2 if account must be taken of the propagation changes resulting from the normal daily variability of the F2 region."
"Normal-run magnetograms for the year 1967 from seven Canadian observatories were scaled to study the amplitude characteristics of Pc 5 pulsations. The results of the statistical analysis are: (1) Large amplitude Pc 5's occur in a limited region located on the poleward side of the auroral zone. (2) The diurnal variation of Pc 5 amplitude maximizes in the post-noon period at Resolute Bay and this peak tends to appear earlier and earlier in the day at the lower latitude stations, e.g., it appears in the morning at Great Whale River. An additional midnight peak in the diurnal variation of amplitude is noted at auroral zone stations. (3) The amplitude attains a maximum value at Great Whale River near the central line of the auroral zone. It decreases at a faster rate toward the lower latitudes than toward the higher latitudes. In quiet intervals an additional peak in the amplitude-latitude profile is noted near the cusp region at Baker Lake. (4) The diurnal variation pattern of amplitude shows no clear relationship with the seasons or with magnetic activity. (5) Under disturbed magnetic conditions a much larger amplification of the amplitude of Pc 5's has been at Great Whale River than at high or low latitude stations. Pc 5 amplitudes correlate very well with Kp up to a level of 6. (6) With increasing solar elevation angle the region of maximum amplitude of Pc 5 is found to move toward the northern border of the auroral zone. (7) From the data analyzed, amplitudes of Pc 5 do not show a 27-day recurrence tendency."
"High resolution incoherent scatter electron density data using Barker-coded pulses are presented for two separate 24-hr periods of very different magnetic conditions. The first period in April 1972 was magnetically quiet while the second period spanned parts of two of the five most magnetically disturbed days in July 1972. Solar activity was low with 2800-MHz indices of 129 and 128 for the April days and indices of 109 and 117 for the July days. Contour plots and selected profiles are presented which show larger sporadic-£ layers and stronger gravity wave effects during the disturbed night than during the quiet night."
"Measurements on laminar and turbulent flames indicate that refraction effects can be calculated in a turbulent flame if the refractive index is assumed to depend on the mean electron density. Refraction effects are important when incoherent scattering cross sections of turbulent wakes are calculated at small aspect angles. Incoherent cross sections were measured at aspect angles of 20° and 40°, for backscatter and bistatic scatter. The measured cross sections deviated from a square-law dependence on electron density in a way that was not well accounted for by a refraction calculation. Both cross-section data and spectral data agreed better with a “modified” refraction calculation in which some energy was said to scatter from the “shadow zone” predicted by refraction."
"A Monte Carlo technique is described for finding the response of a horizontally stratified cold plasma to a plane impulsive wave at vertical incidence. The effects of electron collisions with neutral particles and a vertical magnetic field are included in the analysis. The technique is arrived at by replacing a continuous scattering process (by continuous we mean the electrons are uniformly distributed through any horizontal plane in the plasma) with a sequence of scatters. All orders of scatter are computed from this sequence of scatters, and the Monte Carlo approximation to the exact solution is the sum over these orders of scatter. The method is applicable for any electron density function N(z), collision frequency, or cyclotron frequency. The Monte Carlo solution presented here is valid only for small and intermediate values of time; the solution diverges for large values of time. The Monte Carlo method is applied to the uniform half-space problem since there are exact and approximate analytical solutions to compare with the Monte Carlo results."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"The mean speeds of short wavelength wind-generated waves (wavelengths less than 4 cm) have been obtained from Doppler spectra measured at very short fetch in a wave tank for wind speeds up to 15 m sec−1. These speeds are compared with phase speeds calculated from a first-order perturbation of the wind drift and reasonable agreement is obtained. The measurements show that the difference between mean wave speed and the mean surface drift becomes quite small for wind speeds exceeding 12 m sec−1."
"The average behavior of the MF A1 absorption data at night and sunrise times at Calcutta has been described with a view to understanding the maintenance of the nighttime absorbing region. The nighttime variation of absorption which attains a minimum around one hour after local midnight could easily be accounted for in terms of the scattered UV fluxes. A small decrease in absorption before sunrise is evidenced. The analysis using the partially reflecting Es echo, suggests this is caused by a decrease in deviative loss at F-region heights. The onset time for a further increase in absorption agrees very well with that observed from other techniques."
"Measurements of very low frequency (VLF) atmospherics were made simultaneously at a station close to the lightning sources (Norman, Oklahoma) and at stations 1787 km (La Posta, California) and 5912 km (Kamuela, Hawaii) from Norman. Timing synchronization was maintained between stations to better than 10 μsec which, coupled with the source bearing from Norman, allowed accurate fixing of source locations. Using the numerical techniques of Pappert et al. for propagation parameter calculations, an appropriate exponential ionospheric conductivity model was chosen which best fit the modal interference structure near 10 kHz as a function of source distance as measured at La Posta. From source current moment spectra measured at Norman, the electric field strengths at La Posta and Kamuela were predicted for a wide frequency band (2 to 30 kHz) using the selected conductivity profile. For β = 0.6 km−1 and h' = 84 km (in the notation of Wait and Spies) good agreement between the numerical calculations and the average measured field strengths was obtained."
"A multipulse correlator system for the Chatanika, Alaska, incoherent scatter radar is described. The system utilizes a hardware correlator unit that can deliver as many as 40 8-bit by 8-bit lagged products every 20 μsec. The particular lags at which products are computed are patch-wire programmable, and the range gates at which data are taken are set arbitrarily under computer control. The system operates with a fixed bandwidth of 50 kHz, so that the maximum range resolution is 6 km. To obtain sufficient lag resolution for operation at 1290 MHz, we compute lagged products at other than the nominal subpulse spacing. An example of the correlator operation is given."
"Analytical expressions are derived for the electromagnetic field associated with a vertical electric dipole (VED) above a dissipative earth. The scattered field is shown to consist of a direct contribution from a perfect image source, and a correction due to the finite conductivity of earth which is expressible in terms of an incomplete Hankel function. The resultant expression readily reduces to the well-known asymptotic solutions in both the space-wave and ground-wave regions. Validity of the space-wave expression in the far zone is found to be dependent upon the observation angle as well as the refractive index of earth. In the near field, alternative approximate formulas in closed form are derived from the incomplete Hankel function expression for different elevation angles. These formulas are shown to yield accurate results whenever the distance from the image source is greater than about 0.2λc where λc is the effective wavelength (or skin depth) of earth. For distance smaller than 0.2λc however, an analytical expression based upon a quasistatic approximation is generally applicable and has been discussed elsewhere."
"The integral equations describing electromagnetic scattering from cylindrical, perfectly conducting surfaces are formulated and numerical results are presented. The results are compared with those obtained using approximate methods such as physical optics, geometrical optics, and perturbation theory. The integral equation solutions show that the surface radius of curvature must be greater than 2.5 wavelengths for either the physical optics or geometrical optics to give satisfactory results. It has also been shown that perturbation theory agrees with the exact fields as long as the root-mean-square surface roughness is less than one tenth of a wavelength."
"Electromagnetic wave propagation inside an empty rectangular mine tunnel with imperfect walls is considered. The modal expansion of the fields is complicated by the coupling of the basic modes by the imperfect walls. To avoid this difficulty, and in view of the large guide dimensions relative to the free space wavelength, a geometrical ray approach is proposed. To provide a theoretical foundation for the method, we first consider an idealized waveguide model with two perfectly reflecting side walls. The modal field expansion for this prototype model is fully analyzed to provide a satisfactory comparison between the modal and the geometrical ray sums. The proposed general ray method is then applied to the rectangular waveguide when all four walls are imperfectly conducting. Finally, the influence of wall roughness is considered by a relatively simple method."
"A new diagnostic tool for space plasmas is presented. The oblique resonance excited by an antenna in a magnetoplasma has been detected in the ionosphere with a rocket experiment. The instrument is simple and consists of a fixed frequency transmitter and a receiver. The resonance cone and its fine structure are used to deduce the plasma density and the electron temperature. The possibility of measuring field-aligned currents is briefly discussed."
"In an interesting paper recently published by King et al. [1974], the authors treat the problem of a linear antenna over a conducting half space as the limit of an eccentrically insulated “dipole” when the radius of the insulation becomes infinite while the distance to the wall remains finite."
"New constants are derived for the equation relating the radio refractive index, n, at frequencies below 20 GHz to the pressure, temperature, and humidity of the air. The new equation is where Pa is the partial pressure of dry air (mb), T is the absolute temperature (K), e is the partial pressure of water vapor (mb), and Za−1 and Zw−1 are the inverse compressibility factors for dry air and water vapor, respectively. Improved values of the constants are obtained by considering the relationship between the radio and optical portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. With the use of the full three-term equation including non-ideal gas law effects, the accuracy of the new radio refractive index equation ranges from 0.018%, or about 0.05N, for dry air to 0.048%, or 0.21N, for extremely moist air."
"Previous measurements of Doppler spectra in microwave backscattering in a wind wave tank at 9.375 GHz and 23.9 GHz have been extended to 70.1 GHz at 3 m fetch and to longer fetches and higher winds at the two lower microwave frequencies. At high depression angles, the scatterers appear to be specular points moving at approximately the speed of the dominant wind wave. At lower depression angles, the scatterers can be thought of as comprising systems which are respectively bound to and free of the dominant wave. The free scatterers are low-order Bragg scatterers and it is natural to treat them as free waves or free wave systems in their own right. The bound scatterers are the familiar parasitic capillary waves at low winds, but at higher winds they appear to be associated with the breaking water at the crest of the dominant wave."
"In some applications of ray tracing, it is useful to know the behavior of certain ray-related quantities under a transformation of the variable of path parametrization. One such quantity is the Jacobian of the mapping between small regions surrounding two points on a ray path. A narrow bundle of rays emanating from a point source in an inhomogeneous, anisotropic propagation environment is considered. The mapping between a small region surrounding a reference point on an interior ray of the bundle, and the corresponding, region surrounding an observation point on the same ray, is investigated. The Jacobian of the mapping is studied as a function of an arbitrary path parameter, and a new relation expressing the behavior of the Jacobian under a transformation of the parameter, is derived."
"A procedure intended for obtaining representative electron density profiles of the ionosphere from groups of ionograms, without incurring the expense and uncertainties of first obtaining the constituent profiles, is examined with the evidence accumulated through more than 200 station-years of experience with the method. Some objective comparisons of this “composite virtual height” process with other ionospheric parameters obtained by accepted standard methods, and some subjective evaluations of the composite process, are presented. It is concluded that the method performs satisfactorily in practice and that it offers the economy, lack of bias, representativeness, and internal self-control to justify continuing its use in global ionospheric monitoring."
"The reflection of RF pulses having linear frequency variation off an inhomogeneous, anisotropic, dispersive, and absorbing ionospheric layer is considered in this paper. It is found that moderate pulse compression (10 to 20 db) can be achieved by utilizing the intrinsic dispersive properties of this transmission channel. Results are presented which indicate how this compression varies with magnetic dip angle, solar zenith angle, transmitter-receiver separation distance, and propagation direction with respect to a magnetic meridian."
"A method is presented for the derivation of quasiparabolic ionospheric layer parameters from a set of three data points on the leading edge of a sweep-frequency sky-wave backscatter ionogram. The method is illustrated with a numerical example. Possible extensions of the method are discussed."
"A new semianalytical method has been developed which allows efficient numerical solution for radiation from a flanged waveguide filled with a dielectric material. Some numerical results are presented and compared with other available data."
"The problem of cross-modulation of the electromagnetic waves generated by two oscillating electric dipoles placed in the center of a spherical cavity surrounded by a nonlinear plasma is considered. One of the dipoles is amplitude-modulated with low (acoustic) frequency, and the plasma is assumed slightly ionized, rarefied, and cold. Second-harmonic generation is investigated by means of a perturbative technique in the frame of the “quasi-hydrodynamic” approach, assuming a nonzero electron collision frequency. Numerical results for the field modulated upon the sum of the frequencies of the two dipoles are given, in correspondence to values of the parameters of relevance for radio wave propagation in the ionosphere, and a nonlinear effect of resonance is emphasized."
"The present analysis treats the problem of wave propagation in circular waveguides taking into account the effects of both large wall conductivity and slowly varying cross section. The problem is formulated in terms of the Hertz vector for the case of TM waves. The method of multiple scales is used to find a first-order uniformly valid expansion for the Hertz vector in both the transmission and attenuation regions of the waveguide. The solutions for the perfectly conducting and the circular waveguides are obtained as special cases from the general solution."
"General dispersion relations for a hot magnetoplasma are used to explain the interference observed between electrostatic waves and the electromagnetic field in an afterglow plasma. Observations are made near both oblique resonance cones (connected with whistler and Z-propagation modes) and in the frequency region corresponding to “Bernstein” waves. Independent measurements of the lower (whistler) and upper (Z-mode) resonance cones, for a particular case, lead to the same isotropic temperature in the late afterglow, namely 540 K. Independent measurements of the lower resonance cone and of Bernstein waves in the early afterglow also lead to consistent isotropic temperatures. As the real and imaginary components of the wave number increase, a point of inflection is reached on the various dispersion curves for homogeneous plane waves beyond which these curves can no longer be used to explain the observed interference fringes. For homogeneous waves with a wave number smaller than that corresponding to the inflection point, reasonable values of Landau damping are obtained which agree roughly with observed damping."
"Lists the contributors to this issue."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the periodical."
"Lists the contributors to this issue."
"Presents a listing of the CLEA papers."
"IEEE Std 167-1966. Test Procedure for Facsimile was based on previous issues of the IEEE Test Chart."
"Large stationary lead storage batteries play an ever increasing role in substation and generating station control systems and in providing the backup energy for emergencies. A definite need exists within the industry for an application guide and testing procedure to provide a common or standard method for selecting, applying, and installing batteries to meet station requirements. However, to provide a guide that can be used for determining the available capacity of the battery (especially for nuclear stations), this document will limit its scope to recommended practice for lead storage battery maintenance, testing. and replacement."
"This standard provides recommendations for the selection of instrumentation specific to the continuous monitoring and quantification of radioactivity in effluents released to the environment. The effluent streams considered may contain radioactive gases, liquids, particulates, or dissolved solids singly or in combination. This standard specifies detection capabilities, physical and operating limits, reliability, and calibration requirements and sets forth minimum performance requirements for effluent monitoring instrumentation. Unless otherwise specified, the criteria herein refer to the total system. This standard applies only to monitoring during routine operation that includes abnormal releases. Emergency situations, where additional performance capability will be required, are a matter of separate consideration."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This is the first international conference on the general subject of submillimeter waves and their applications. We expect it to be the first of a long series because the submillimeter wave specialty has become well-defined and moderately well populated. It is clear from our experience during the past ten years that we can expect at least one outstanding advance every two or three years in the science, technology. and/or application of submillimeter waves. This conference will reveal several as well as many needed improvements in the technology and applications."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Optical pumping of polar molecules by means of an infrared laser has lead to the discovery of about 280 new laser lines between 34 micrometers and 1.8 mm. Very stable cw operation, very high pulsed output, and many other advantages over discharge excitation are offered."
"Intense superradiant laser action on a pure rotational transition in optically pumped CH3F has been recently reported. 1,2 It is the purpose of this paper to present a parametric study on similar superradiant transitions observed in other molecules."
"A rate equation model for an optically pumped FIR gas laser is proposed. The gain expression includes saturation effects due to both pump power and FIR intensity. A criterion for positive gain is derived, and the role of velocity cross-relaxation examined."
"New developments in far infrared generation by noncollinear mixing of CO2 lasers in GaAs and CdTe are presented. In particular, new folded crystal geometries which can yield orders of magnitude increase in the output power are discussed."
"Radiation from an intense relativistic electron beam at submillimeter wavelengths has been measured with bandpass and high-pass filters. Radiated power ∼ 100 kW has been measured in the passband 390 μm −540 μm. The generation of this radiation depends on giving the electrons a large energy component transverse to the magnetic guide field. Coherent wave generation mechanisms which may account for the observed radiation are discussed."
"Discretely tunable far infrared signals in the 100-1000 μm wavelength range, generated by phase matched difference frequency mixing selected pulsed CO2 laser lines in a GaAs planar dielectric waveguide, are described. About 0.25 milliwatt (~ 4.6% of theoretical) maximum with a 30% bandwidth tunability around 250 μm was achieved using a 4.87 mm length waveguide."
"Performances, for example, dependency on size and gas pressure, of metallic waveguide for far-infrared molecular lasers were studied. Compact, highly efficient, optically pumped waveguide lasers in the submillimeter and millimeter wave regions have been developed."
"The submillimetre laser transitions of CF2CH2 have been assigned to pure rotation transitions in the v9, v4 and v5 + v10 vibrational states using results from laser Stark spectroscopy."
"A modified form of H-guide is investigated theoretically and experimentally. Attenuations <; 1 dB/m are predicted. Guide characteristics are verified at 8 mm wavelength, and guide attenuation of 8 dB/m achieved at 1/3 mm wavelength. Open-resonator characteristics are investigated at 337 um using a HCN laser. Resonance spectra agree with theoretical predictions and Q factors up to 8 × 104 achieved. Dielectric permittivity and loss-tangent values are obtainable from spectra changes. This work sponsored by United Kingdom National Physical Laboratory."
"High quality low-frequency pass and band pass metalic mesh interference filters are discussed, which cover the range 50μm to 1000μm. The use of these filters in satellite radiometry (operational) and balloon-borne astronomy is specifically considered."
"An inexpensive electronic interface which controls the flow of a phase-detected signal from a Michelson interferometer to a signal averager is described. This interface is designed to add the advantages of signal averaging techniques to an existing slow scan interferometer system which employs phase sensitive detection and time constant averaging."
"The concept of a phased array of far infrared or submillimeter waveguide lasers that can be scanned electronically is presented. Grating lobe reduction by computer analysis is shown. The application in a low angle track-while-scan radar is discussed."
"A strong resonant nonlinearity due to the conduction spins has been observed when the frequency (~100 cm-1) of far-infrared (FIR), generated by difference frequency mixing of two orthogonally polarized CO2 laser beams is tuned to the spin-resonance frequency in InSb.1 This effect has been used to generate submillimeter radiation2 continuously tunable between 90-110 cm-1 by difference frequency mixing the 944.2 cm-1 pump and the magnetically tunable, frequency shifted Stokes radiation from an InSb spin flip Raman laser (SFR). Mixing occurs in a separate crystal of InSb. Since the Raman shift of the SFR is exactly equal to the spin resonance frequency the resonance condition is automatically achieved if the oscillator crystal and the mixer crystal are mounted in the same magnetic field (Fig. 1). In principle the functions could be combined and the SFR would then itself become a generator of continuously tunable submillimeter radiation. A separate mixer crystal has been used to simplify phase matching of the three frequency mixing process. Due to presence of multiple longitudinal modes of SFR laser, the frequency of FIR was not continuously tunable. An attempt to resolve this problem by using a nonresonant superradiant spin-flip Raman laser (NRSSFR) has been successful.3 Another way to obtain the FIR continuously tunable and also in cw operation is to use the ~2.3μ radiation from CO laser as pump frequency.4,5 Work is in progress to overcome the phase-matching problem resulting from the large dispersion of refractive indices in the 5.3μ region6."
"The radiative emission from impact ionized shallow donors in n-type InSb provides a tunable far-infrared source, the properties and applications of which are investigated. To obtain optimum conditions the radiation intensity is studied in dependence of the sample volume and the electric and magnetic field intensities. The source is applied to measure the Zeeman-splitting of the shallow donors in n-InP and n-G-aAs."
"We have studied radiation emitted by Nb-Nb point contact Josephson junctions at frequencies up to 30 cm-1. Spectroscopic measurements on solids have been made using this source."
"Recombination radiation from Landau states in impact ionized high-purity GaAs has been observed. The narrow band (~ 3 cm-1) emission has been magnetically tuned from 80 to 120 cm-1, and used to observe rotational transitions in water vapor."
"Some severe limitations of optically-pumped superradiant FIR lasers (700 MHz line width, ragged pulse shape) may be overcome using transverse optical pumping (TOP). Strong (~ 500 W) lines have been produced in CH3F with linewidth <; 30 MHz, and cavity tuning has been achieved over a range of 460 MHz at 496 pan."
"A Josephson junction 1.6 mm wavelength microwave source has been used to demonstrate the parametric amplification by reflection necessary to maintain parametric oscillations at 1.6 mm wavelength. A perturbation calculation based on the resistively and capacitively shunted Josephson junction model gives a negative effective microwave resistance for a junction biased at voltages higher than the voltage for a cavity induced step. The parametric oscillation was observed at voltages consistent with the region in which negative resistance was calculated."
"Far-infrared absorption spectrum of single crystals of lysozyme was measured between 10-500 cm-1 at room and the liquid N2 temperatures. A number of absorption bands were observed, some of which were assigned to the main and the side chain vibrations of lysozyme."
"Submillimeter magneto-spectroscopic measurements of the shallow donor impurity in InAs epi-layer crystals have been made at low temperatures. Several excited state transitions have been observed for the first time, together with various transitions from the ground state."
"Submillimeter lasers are optically pumped far from molecular absorptions using high power pumping or Stark tuning. Lasing between vibrational levels has been demonstrated with overtone pumping. These lasers have been applied to solid state spectroscopy."
"The design of a cw compact FIR waveguide laser operating in the 40μm-lmm spectral region is described. A metallic waveguide with internal mirrors is essential for efficient operation at wavelengths greater than 500μm. Performance data are discussed."
"A reflection interference filter is used as an absorber in a new type of Black Body cavity for use as a standard source for the submillimetre spectrun. An emissivity of better than 99.9% is obtained and the effective temperature is well defined."
"Principles of microwave antenna design have been extended to sub-millimetre telescope and spectrometer optics. The results are systems with specially shaped reflectors, comprising two elements for radiometry and three elements for use with Michelson interferometers."
"A grille spectrometer vas specially adapted to the spectral range 20-45 μm. This apparatus, combining the properties of high resolution and large throughput, allowed us to achieve the analysis of the γ8 vibration-rotation band of methyl cyanide near 360 cm-1. The molecular constants are in good agreement with those provided by microwave measurements."
"A sensitive far-infrared (100-400 μm) detector system is described consisting of a liquid-helium cooled GaAs photoconductor, cryogenic preamplifier, and room-temperature post amplifier. The system bandwidth is 1 Hz to 30 MHz, ten times greater than for InSb hot electron bolometers."
"Diagnostics of the cw-HCN-laser plasma with field and temperature probe, a mass spectrometer, as well as related exoeriments prove that H2 or D2 molecules are required as collision partners of the HCN molecules. The formation of laser-active HCN molecules on the tube wall influence the radial gain profile. With this effect the excitation or suppression of higher HCN-laser modes can be controlled by the chemical composition of the laser gas."
"The gain saturation of a 337 μm HCN laser is shown to be homogeneous. Dependence of gain and saturation intensity on tube radius and gas temperature leads to the design of a compact, clean running laser."
"The transversely excited 337 μm-HCN-laser with an output power near 1 kW is described. Relevant data on the construction, laser-gases and performance are presented."
"A transient plasma is located within the Fabry-Perot resonator of a dc hydrogen cyanide laser. Plasma tuning sweeps the resonator modes through the emission line of the HCN molecules and produces pulses of far-infrared output radiation. Pulse production by hydrogen, nitrogen, helium and argon pulsed plasmas is discussed."
"Plasma conditions in the pulsed HCN laser are critical to its performance. The radial electron distribution is such as to produce strong focusing initially. A magnetic field can be used to enhance or reduce or modulate the output."
"The performance of a Ge bolometer cooled to 0.10°K is discussed. A detector responsivity of 1.1 × 107 V W-1 and NEP of 5 × 10-16 W Hz-1/2 are expected. A single-cycle He dilution refrigerator with no moving parts is also described."
"The dependence of the resistivity and FIR absorptance on donor concentration, compensation, and temperature in compensated n-type Si is reported. The effect of environment, time-constant, and spectral-passband on the NEP of the compensated Si bolometer is examined and compared with similar calculations for the compensated Ge bolometer."
"Studies were mde of two different GaAs submillimeter detection systems. DC biased and microwave biased GaAs photoconductive detectors were compared and evaluated. The microwave biased detector exhibited a significantly wider bandwidth over that of the DC device."
"A new detector in the millimeter wave region of the spectrum has been developed using heavily doped but closely compensated InSb. Conduction in this detector is along a surface channel and detectors have been constructed with responsivities at peak of 500 V/Watt and an NEP at peak of 10−10 Watts/cm2 Hz1/2."
"The best detectivity obtained at room temperature is D* = 6 · 108 W-1 Hz1/2 cm at 10 Hz with a TGS target 0.5 mm2 × 0.010 mm. The discussion will concern possible improvements concerning: (1) choice of material, and (2) crystal thickness, possibility of epitaxial growth."
"Schottky diodes have been used for submillimeter heterodyne detection and harmonic mixing. In particular, extremely sensitive detectors of optically pumped lasers have been demonstrated using a carcinotron local oscillator at 890μ."
"A new type of far infrared detector is described with a useful long wavelength limit of about 400 μm. Fast response times of several microseconds (source limited) have been demonstrated with pulsed far infrared molecular laser detection."
"A point contact Josephson junction has been investigated as a heterodyne mixer at 337 μm. The conversion efficiency reached about -32 dB using a laser local oscillator and about -42 dB using 9th or 12th harmonic mixing with a klystron."
"A bolometer for use in the submillimeter and far infrared is described. The temperature sensitive element is an SNS Josephson junction. The electrical NEP is 5 × 10−15 W/Hz1/2 and the detectivity, D∗, is 1014 cm Hz1/2 W−1."
"Heterodyne detection with a point contact Josephson junction has been investigated both experimentally and theoretically. From our results at 36 GHz, we can extrapolate a potentially impressive performance for these devices at submillimeter wavelengths."
"The group theory of submillimeterwave-frequency angular auto-correlation functions of almost-rigid polyatomic molecules in liquids is presented and illustrated by functions determined from vibration -rotation spectra."
"The influence of Coriolis coupling on submillimeterwave-frequency angular auto-correlation functions describing the random rotation of spherical or symmetric molecules is calculated. Theoretical and experimental correlation functions of molecules with Coriolis effects are compared."
"The nonlinear optical properties due to mobile carriers in nonparabolic energy bands have been first proposed by Butcher and McLean and Lax et al, observed by Patel et a1 and described by Wolff and Pearson. All theories of this effect have used expansion of nonlinear currents in powers of the electric field of the wave."
"An analysis of the performance of an optically pumped quantum paramagnetic amplifier/generator for submillimeter wave operation is given."
"The phenomena of Dicke superradiance is discussed from the standpoint of the Fokker-Planck differential equation representation derived from the master equation in the atomic coherent states. Results calculated from the solution of this equation together with a self-consistency argument first put forth by Arecchi and Courtens are used to present characteristics of and criteria for its detection."
"Techniques used at the National Physical Laboratory to study the absorption spectra of gases at a resolution of 0.05 cm-1 in the 10 cm-1 to 40 cm-1 spectral region are described. New measurements on CO, N2O, NO, SO2, H2S, H2O, NO2, HNO3 are shown and discussed."
"Two-beam interferometric spectrometry, in which a spectrum is obtained by taking the Fourier transform of an interferogram, is now the preferred technique for most applications in the submillimetre spectrum, say 5-200cm-1. The method most commonly in use is based on the Michelson or Twyman-Green configuration with a stretched dielectric film as beam-divider. The results obtained in practice using this method fall well short of what should be possible ideally. We have previously reported briefly on a new method of interferometry involving a polarising beam divider (ref.1). This has brought performances closer to the ideal. Examples of performance and a fuller discussion of the method are given in this paper."
"A far-infrared Fourier interferometer for amplitude-phase reflection spectroscopy on solids is described. It can be used with small samples at low temperatures and with fairly high resolution (<; 0.1 cm-1). The spectral range presently is 10-1000 cm-1."
"The purpose of this paper will be to describe the current state-of-the-art of commercial interferometric Fourier spectroscopy, with particular reference to two recently developed Michelson interferometer systems, the POLYTEC FIR 30 and MIR 30, the operating characteristics of which are summarized in Table 1."
"A new technique, suitable for use at low temperatures and on relatively small samples, is described for measuring the amplitude and phase reflection spectra of solids in the far infrared without mechanical replacement of reflecting surfaces."
"An efficient beamsplitter for a Michelson interferometer can be made from a pair of 90° prisms, using the process of frustrated total internal reflection. The design, laboratory tests, and astronomical applications of such an interferometer are discussed."
"Recent advances in dispersive Fourier spectrometry are described. The complex refractive indices of lossy materials are now directly measurable over a wide spectral range and results overlapping with high-frequency microwave data will be presented and discussed."
"Antiferromagnetic resonance (AFMR) in weak antiferromagnets (WF) is investigated at wavelength λ = 300μ-14mm at 4.2-400°K in magnetic fields (MF) up to 300kOe. A new theoretical approach to the physics of magnetic fenomena is developed."
"Transition metal tungstates have a low symmetry crystalline lattice (spase group C42h). They have biaxial antiferromagnetic structure below the Neel temperature (TN=67°K for NiWO4 and TN =55°K for CoWO4). The ground state spin of a magnetic ion in these crystals is S > 1 (for Ni2+ S=1, for Co2+ S=3/2). In this case we should expect both specific features of the AFMR mode behaviour in an applied magnetic field as temperature changes and new magnetic branches of the spin-wave1,2. The experiment was carried out diffraction spectrometer in linearly polarized radiation."
"The antiferromagnetic resonance (AFMR) of NiO doped with Fe2+ and Co2+ was studied at 4. 2 K in the far infrared spectral region by means of Fourier transform spectroscopy. For the Co2+ doped crystals, a strong shift of the AFMR line was observed. In case of the Fe2+ doped crystal, this shift was much smaller. In addition, a second absorption line was found for larger concentrations of Co2+ (5 % to 7 %). All these effects are attributed to the single ion anisotropics of the Fe2+ and Co2+ ions, and the experimental results are interpreted by means of a simple model calculation."
"The temperature dependence of the effective internal fields of NiO has been determined from antiferromagnetic resonance experiments at submillimeter frequencies using Fourier transform spectroscopy and at millimeter wavelengths with the usual spectroscopic techniques."
"The zero field splitting of the high spin ferric ion in a frozen solution of methemoglobin is obtained from the frequency dependence of the g-value determined by EPR experiments performed in the wavelength range: 4-0.7mm. The submillimeter EPR spectrometer and the results are described."
"Recently developed high-power submillimeter lasers offer new possibilities for fundamental studies of laser-plasma and laser-solid interactions and may also be very useful in tokamak plasma diagnostics."
"The ALCATOR electron density (1013 <; n <; 1014 cm-3) has been measured with a 337μ Mach-Zender interferometer. A detailed description of the interferometer is given. Results are discussed and compared with microwave interferometry data."
"A wire mesh Fabry-Pérot interferometer with millisecond response time has been constructed. The application of this instrument to study the millimeter and submillimeter synchrotron radiation emitted by magnetically confined Tokamak plasmas is discussed."
"An experiment is described in which the emission from a tokamak plasma in the region of the electron cyclotron frequency and its low harmonics (up to the sixth) is measured. The results are compared with the predictions of the theory of cyclotron emission."
"Coherent HCN-Laser Scattering can be used as a diagnostic for waves and fluctuations in Tokamak- and Stellarator-type plasmas. Conditions for measuring the scattered light and a resulting heterodyne detection system are described."
"Required MW-level, 30 MHz linewidth, 496 μm radiation for plasma diagnostics may be achieved in CH3F using an oscillator-pulse amplifier combination employing transverse optical pumping (TOP). It is estimated that an upper limit of 150 joules of CO2 laser pump energy is required to produce 1 MW (.07 joules, 60 nsec) FIR pulses."
"Theoretical estimates are presented of the limiting performance which might be achieved in the heterodyne mode with currently available pyroelectric materials over a range of intermediate frequencies. Experimental measurements on Triglycine Sulphate detectors have yielded a noise equivalent power at 10.6 μm of 2 × 10-15 WHz-1, at 337 μm of 1 × 10-12 WHz and at 3cm of 8 × 10-13 WHz-1 with intermediate frequencies of 20 kHz, 800 Hz and 1 kHz respectively."
"An n-channel MOSFET at low temperatures exhibits a photoresistive response when illuminated by far-infrared radiation due to electron transitions defined by the potential at the Si-SiO2 interface. Gate voltage variations lead to continuous tuning between 8 and 35 meV."
"The atmospheric attenuation at 1.3 and 0.87 mm was measured above Mount Hamilton, California in the period December 5 to December 9, 1973. The measured value of the zenith attenuation varied from 1 to 5 dB at 1.3 mm over this 5 day period, and was 2.5 dB at 0.87 mm on December 9, 1973. The total beamwidth of the 120” Lick Observatory telescope used in the Coudé configuration was measured to be 3' at 1.3 mm."
"A high resolution Michelson interferometer has been used to obtain solar spectra from a jet aircraft in the low stratosphere. The spectra are absolutely calibrated in intensity, enabling the solar brightness temperature to be specified from 200 to 700 p. Concentrations of trace gases in the stratosphere are determined from intensity of absorption lines."
"The solar brightness temperature was measured in the spectral region between 180 μm and 500 μm wavelength with a balloon-borne lamellar-grating interferometer. The result is in good agreement with the HSRA-model."
"The scattering and extinction properties of cloud and rain elements for far-infrared and submillimeter radiation have been estimated on the basis of recently determined optical constants, by means of polydisperse Mie scattering theory and realistic drop-size distributions."
"This paper will deal with a comparison between Azbel'-Kaner cyclotron resonance performed at microwave frequencies and at far infrared frequencies, with emphasis on recent work in copper. The microwave measurements were performed at 73 GHz in the laboratory of Dr. C.C. Grimes and the far infrared measurements on two spectrometers of different designs: a reflection cavity spectrometer at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey, and a calorimetric spectrometer at Harvard University. The reflection cavity spectrometer shown in Fig. 1 employs a double Michelson interferometer where the two arms of the interferometer constitute a balanced bridge. A reflection cavity is placed in one arm of the interferometer which is tuned so that changes in the cavity reflectivity due to changes in the surface impedance of the sample will unbalance the signals at the two cooled germanium detectors of the bridge. The cavity, shown in Fig. 2, is bounded by a curved 1000-line/in. copper screen and the sample surface, and possesses a Q such that changes in reflectivity of the cavity are 100 times as large as would be seen from the bare metal sample."
"An original spectrometer permits the observation of cyclotron resonance in metals in the 2-0. 6mm wavelength band. Physical results concern the electron-phonon interaction in lead and indium, and the Fermi surface of a ferromagnetic metal, nickel."
"Absorption spectra of transmitted Alfven waves in bismuth in Faraday configuration and H directed at and near the bisectrix axis have been studied using the 311 and 337 μm radiation from a HCN laser and magnetic fields up to 100 kG."
"In contrast to magneto-transmission and magneto-photoconductivity measurements in tellurium the radiation induced Nernst effect reveals impurity and cyclotron transitions exactly and is not obscured by other effects as demonstrated in samples of different dislocation densities."
"The optimal characteristics of amplitude splitters for submillimeter radiation beams are determined. Versions of optical schemes with large light gathering power utilized such splitters are proposed. Using them high sensitive reciving devices for 2-0.2 mm waveband region with Fabry-Perot and Michelson interferometers and n-InSb immersion detectors (spectroradiometers) are constructed."
"Noise measuraments in the frequency region 6.5×10-5 - 1.6×10-2 Hz and 5-200 Hz have been performed between 300 and 3000 microns at the observatory of Testa Grigia (3500 m.a.s.l.). During clear and dry days and ninths no excess of noise has been detected with respect to the photon noise of a 300°K blackbody."
"We have measured the sky temperature trough the 7-10 cm-1 atmospheric window from the Alpine station of Testa Grigia (3500m. a.s.l.). An upper limit of 2.7°K has been found."
"The submillimeter region is an area of the spectrum where a limited knowledge of the linear optical properties of useful materials exists. Trigonal (class 32) Se and cubic (class 43m) CdTe have important linear and nonlinear optical properties in the near infrared for laser optics.1,2 To extend their usefulness, the optical constants (index of refraction n and power absorption α = 4Πk/λ) of Se and CdTe have been measured in the 10 to 100 cm-1 range. Fourier transform spectroscopy, combined with the channeled spectrum technique, provided a convenient method of obtaining accurate far-IR optical data. These data have been combined with the available data from the literature to obtain a new and improved oscillator fit and to obtain more accurate values for the fundamental lattice vibrations."
"The results are presented of the detailed studies on the exciton absorption spectra in ultrapure Ge in the spectrum region 0.67-1.1 and 1.7-3.7 mev with a backward-wave tube radiation. It is shown that the measured spectrum corresponds to the exciton's transitions from the ground to excited states. As a result of themperature measurements at 1.6-4.2°K the phase transition of excitons into condensed state has been observed without the formation of excitonic molecules."
"The submillimeterwave spectral emission of small crystals and thin films of alkalihalides was measured for different angles of emission and polarization. The resulting spectra are interpreted as virtual modes."
"The reflectivity of n-GaAs has been measured between 16 and 230 cm-1 by Fourier transform spectroscopy. The reflectivity is shown to be relatively independent of the electron scattering model and useful for determining carrier concentration and mobility."
"Absorption and photoconductivity of 337 μm radiation in Sb-doped Ge have been investigated at liquid He temperatures; the result suggests that a delocalized excited state exists between the conduction band and the donor ground state."
"A high pressure far infrared cell operating to truly hydrostatic pressures of 8 Kbars is described and used to determine the anharmonic self-energies associated with the q ≈ 0 transverse optic modes of ionic solids."
"The experiment is designed to determine the spectrum of the cosmic background radiation in the wavelength range 3mm to 300μm., using a balloon-borne liquid helium cooled polarising interferometer with two indium antimonide detectors."
"We have developed and flown a balloon-borne liquid helium cooled spectrometer to measure the cosmic background radiation in the 3-18 cm-1 region. It features a cooled horn antenna, polarizing Michelson interferometer and germanium bolometer. These design features and the performance of the instrument are discussed."
"Anomalous absorption, i.e. that not attributable to water monomer or oxygen has been detected in many atmospheric observations both slant path using the sun as source (ref. 1) and horizontal path using an artificial source (ref. 2). In the real atmosphere it is difficult to achieve adequate stability and homogenity in the path to find the true dependence of the anomalous absorption on temperature and relative humidity. This can be done better in laboratory conditions but long path lengths are necessary to get adequate absorption."
"A photometer has been built, calibrated and tested for photometry in the 20 μ atmospheric window. The spectral band is selected by means of four successive reflections at Irtran-1 crystal-material, fitted in a helium dewar together with a germanium bolometer. A reflective, near-focal-plane chopper modulates the beam in a square wave mode. The laboratory calibration showed a sensitivity of 3.5×104 Veff/W corresponding with an efficiency of the photometer of 13%. Coupled to the 60 cm f/15 telescope in Roden a detection limit of 2.10-24 W/m2Hz could be established."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
